Green Valley Oil Services (GVOS) awarded Nijhuis Industries the order to deliver a turnkey wastewater treatment plant for the South Port Said Industrial Zone (SPIZ) in Port Said, Egypt. The capacity of the plant is 60.000 m3/day (equal to 4 million PE) and will be delivered in two phases. Phase 1 will treat 35.000 m3/day and another 25.000 m3/day of industrial wastewater will be treated after the second phase, which is expected to be in operation in April 2019. 
 The plant consists of Nijhuis proven technologies for the physical-chemical, aerobic and anaerobic biological treatment, active sludge and tertiary treatment, to meet the strict effluent requirements, and will also recover as much as possible biogas and energy from the effluent. Based on the current composition of the wastewater collected from over 250 companies in the Port Said Industrial Zone the plant is designed to be self-sufficient on its energy demand, but will also sell access power to the grid, a true example of turning the cost for wastewater into profit!
 Mr. Ahmed Ramadan, Chairman and CEO of the GVOS Group explains “After successfully cooperating with Nijhuis Industries on some of our existing wastewater treatment facilities in Egypt we approached them because of their extensive experience in difficult to treat industrial wastewater, their flexibility and focus on project delivery, operations & maintenance and customer satisfaction. This project marks the new policy of the Egyptian Government to work in public private partnership with industry together to provide a clean and safe environment for the people living in Port Said, the Suez Channel and Mediterranean Sea, avoid environmental pollution, save water and built resilience to the impact of climate change. The fifteen-year BOT contract to operate this wastewater treatment facility is of very big importance to the GVOS Group and builds on our reputation to deliver solutions for environmental challenges.” Also read: Orascom Construction signs US$320mn to Build Wastewater Treatment Plant in Egypt Mr. Menno M. Holterman, CEO of Nijhuis Industries, continues “For Nijhuis it’s the largest order since the company was founded in 1904, integrating almost all Nijhuis technologies into the most state-of-the-art wastewater treatment facility in Egypt, the Middle East and Africa region with a capacity comparable to treat wastewater of 4 million PE. Furthermore, it also supports our successful waste-to-value strategy offering turnkey solutions to address the ever-growing demand for larger and more complicated wastewater treatment in emerging countries like Egypt. Besides being awarded this prestigious first project the exclusive partnership between Nijhuis Industries and GVOS combines the strength of both companies to offer BOT solutions to industrial zones and oil& gas operations in Egypt, Middle East and Africa during the years to come. Together, we will first however focus on delivering one of the ten largest industrial wastewater treatment plants in the world in a record period of time.” GVOS is a customer focused company striving to continually offer its clients the best, cost effective, most reliable and most environmentally compatible waste treatment solutions. At Nijhuis Industries it is their mission to help customers to reduce, reuse and recover water and resources to create profit. They help their valued customers to meet their increasingly demanding sustainability requirements, lower their environmental footprint, combine productivity and energy efficiency and reduce life cycle cost at the same time.  