Ideal Standard MENA, sister companyto Ideal Standard International BVBA, focuses on the growth of the market through capitalization of massive business opportunities in the Middle East, Egypt and Africa, with Head Offices in Dubai, UAE. Ideal Standard heritage understands how bathrooms works in totality. With total bathroom solutions as its core business for over 100 years, the company designs, manufactures and supplies ceramic products, bathroom mixers, furniture and accessories, bathing and showering solutions for residential, commercial and institutional buildings. The company has on offer bespoke bathroom solutions to suit the needs of various projects – be they residential, commercial or public facilities. While these facilities vary in purpose, design and size, the firm says it can accommodate all requirements through its wide array of products and world-class brands such as the flagship Ideal Standard, Armitage Shanks, Jado and American Standard, among others. The company works with some of the world’s leading designers that have invested their creativity in Ideal Standard products for many years, blending panache and advanced technology into unmatched sanitary ware; products that incorporate the latest water and energy saving innovations and cutting-edge design. In this case, mixers are fitted with click cartridge that help to reduce household bills without compromising on comfort. But it’s not just about saving water and energy; connect blue fittings also improve water hygiene since Ideal Blue technology is a unique nickel and lead free technology, designed specifically for basin mixers.  Furthermore, most Ideal Standard cisterns are equipped with a dual flush mechanism that allows for two different levels of flush, the full 3 or 6 litres as well as a smaller 2.6 or 4 liter flush, thus saving more than 50% of waste versus the traditional cistern of 12litres flush. Ideal Standard MENA as a major bathroom mixers, ceramics and accessories manufacturer has a responsibility to take a lead in training. “It is in everyone’s interests to improve skills and the level of professionalism and competence across the industry,” says Joshua Njoroge the sales representative. The firm has made training one of the key strategic priorities for the company; for instance, it sponsors various events where they do presentation and display of their products. For this reason, the firm organizes factory tours with QS, MEs and architects to Bulgaria, Egypt, Dubai and UK. Being in the fore front of the industry’s development; the manufacturer has invested significant sums in training, infrastructure, research, exhibitions and development, and this continues with a number of fresh initiatives that put training and skills at the centre of its approach to the market. This aids construction professionals in improving their skills and also understanding their products. To deliver superior service in the construction industry the company has introduced innovative products into the market. For instance, AquaBlade™ technology sets new standards in both toilet design and optimum flush performance; the smooth, gently curved surface with no overhanging rim also means it is much more hygienic and easier to clean; it is quieter in flush, and has an all-round smarter design. Additionally, to successfully improve hygiene the firm has introduced AquaBlade™ technology that outperforms all existing toilets in terms of hygiene. Traditional toilets leave a significant area of the bowl unwashed, particularly at the back of the bowl. Confirming this Mr. Njoroge, says “The AquaBlade channel is positioned close to the top of the bowl so that 95% of the surface area beneath is cleaned every time. In comparison with many traditional flushes, AquaBlade is up to 25% quieter”. Ideal Standard MENA pops up whenever iconic landmarks are mentioned in the world. Examples of projects undertaken in Middle East and Africa include Burj Al Arab and Burj Khalifa in Dubai, Financial Centre and Emirates Palace Hotel in Abu Dhabi, UAE, Cairo Airport, Opera House in Egypt,  In Nairobi they have supplied and installed Ideal Standard products in Panafric hotel, Norfolk Towers, Comfort hotel, Safaricom Crystal Mall at Athi River, ongoing M-pesa Foundation Academy where they supplied ideal standard Tesi Aquablade, Neptune Paradise, Bamburi Beach, City mall in Mombasa among other projects. The company has a proven system that addresses clients’ problem by guaranteeing a warranty of 25 years on ceramics, and 10 years on mixers and acrylic products. “Customers are at the heart of everything we do, and wherever we are. Our principle aim is always the same: enabling people to create beautiful bathroom spaces,” he added. The company’s products are available through its distributor  Ideal Ceramics; located at Mombasa road opposite Sameer Business Park with branches in Westlands Empress Suites Jalaram Rd, in Nyali, behind City Mall Nyali, MaheshDoshi Road and in Shimanzi Next to Brookside depot, Makande Rd.