Laticrete, a leading manufacturer of premium installation and finishing systems for the building industry, has appointed Ritesh Singh as the new general manager for the Middle East and Africa (MEA) region. Singh had previously served as the head of sales for Laticrete in the Middle East and had played a key role in driving the company’s growth in the region. He will be replacing Sujit Singh who headed the MEA operations for over 18 years. Singh started his journey with Laticrete, in India, as a fresh MBA graduate and spent over 12 years building key relationships in the region, eventually growing to handle the biggest sales territory in India. Subsequently he worked for Pidilite and thereafter moved to the Middle East, where he has been working with Laticrete Middle East for over two years. Welcoming Singh into the fold, Faisal Saleem, the vice-president at Laticrete International, said: “Globally, it is an exciting time for Laticrete as we have acquired five companies this year – three in Europe and one each in Australia and Central America.” Also read: Laticrete unveils hitech waterproofing systems at Big 5 construction expo in Dubai, UAE Laticrete has strong plans to further expand its presence across Middle East, Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America in the next three to five years, he stated. A worldwide manufacturer and marketer of major construction solutions, Laticrete boasts a broad range of products and systems covering tile and stone installation and care besides masonry installation, decorative floor finishes and concrete construction chemicals. On his new role, Singh said: “I am very excited to take on this new opportunity, as Laticrete Middle East moves into its next phase of growth by expanding its presence across the Middle East and Africa.” Laticrete, he stated, has had a major presence in the Middle East since the 90s and been a key part of some of the milestone projects in the region, from the Burj Khalifa in Dubai, to the Al Hamra Tower in Kuwait and the Kingdom Centre in Riyadh. Singh said Africa was the next frontier for growth in the Laticrete world. “This will also see us recruit further talent to support our growth initiatives. With globally proven construction solutions and strong relationships within the construction industry, we are confident of an impressive and sustainable growth in the coming future,” he added.