Euro convention Global is organizing: Senegal Renewable Energy & Power Infrastructure Investors Conference 2017, set to take place in Dakar on December 7th. The conference proceedings and discussions will be held both in English and French, with simultaneous translations. Senegal has strong potential for renewable energy generation, most of which is untapped. So far, hydropower has been partly exploited and contributes to the power mix. The country however has significant solar energy resources, with market opportunities on the set up and expansion of national and international development programs. Moreover, solar PV has been used in new mini-grids and to modernize existing ones. The wind energy potential, on the other hand, is also very promising, mostly along Senegal’s Northern coastline. Wind power could in the future account for as much as 70% of Senegal’s renewable energy generation capacity according to some studies. Last but not least, biomass will play an increasingly important role in the renewable energy generation since it is abundant owing to the amount of organic waste produced by the agricultural sector. Come see for yourself and network with the key stakeholders in the sector, including representatives from the Government, International Finance Institutions, international and local developers, EPC contractors, independent power producers, engineering services and advisory, manufacturers, banking and private equity entities. Detailed agenda and registration – Do not miss out! The detailed agenda and the registration form will be shared with you upon your written inquiry to the organizers. Kindly note that companies registering as referred by Construction Review will receive a 15% discount on registration and corporate packages. Partnership Opportunities: remaining speaking slots and display stand space available Business development will be at center focus, so if you are looking for a more pro-active participation, this event offers unique opportunities to raise your company profile and highlight your expertise. Please contact the organizers, should you want to find out more about the proposed packages and current interesting conditions. For more information, please contact the organizers: Maxence de Craecker – Event Manager Email: mdecraecker@euroconventionglobal.com, euroconventionglobal@gmail.com Tel. USA: +1 407 985 2256 Tel. Belgium: +32 2 662 16 12