Zimbabwe is set for the dualization of the Beitbridge-Harare-Chirundu Highway. The government has assured youths in Mashonaland West that they will benefit from employment created through the project expected to last three years. According to Deputy Minister of Transport and Infrastructural Development Engineer Michael Madanha, although the Government has awarded the tender to a foreign company, locals are expected to play a part in other construction-related processes or as casual labourers. “We expect the youth, especially those staying close to the highway, to benefit from the dualization process as they will be employed as manual labourers,” said Engineer Michael Madanha. “As Government, we also managed to award our local construction industry the opportunity to provide the foreign company with quarry stones and other locally available materials,” he added. Youths at Charlie village in Nyamakate, Hurungwe, expressed gratitude for the opportunity and pleaded with Government to oversee the recruitment process to ensure an impartial process. Also read: Makuti-Chirundu road survey in Zimbabwe almost complete An expectant youth from the area, Edson Maeresa, said the Government should influence recruitment so that youths benefit according to location. “We hope Government will take part in the job allocation so that we won’t see outsiders benefiting at the expense of the locals,” Mr Maeresa said. Hurungwe councillor Mr Jealousy Matesanwa urged Chief Chundu and Mr Abel Mbasera, to oversee the process of recruitment within his jurisdiction. Youths in Mhangura are also upbeat that they will benefit from the project. But there are some groups that fear their businesses will be affected by the road project. For example, bartenders and shopkeepers at Lion Den’s Eleven Miles and Mapinga say they might be relocated as their workplaces are in the way of the proposed project. Eng Madanha said the Government was still assessing how the affected people will be compensated. “We are currently assessing the impact and, for now, I cannot give details on how the affected people will be compensated,” he said. The dualization of the highway is expected to improve the quality of the road, which has so far outlived its lifespan of 20 years by almost 35 years. The route provides passage from South Africa to countries like Zambia, Tanzania and DRC, and is one of the busiest in the country and region.