Being one of the largest Africa’s economies, Egypt is cementing this position through real estate investments across the country. The following are the top construction companies in Egypt, that exist to realize the Egyptian development dream. Redcon Construction Company in Egypt has been in operation for the past 25 years dealing in matters construction and property business. The firm also ventured in procurement to tap into the soaring market as Egypt’s economy was on the rise. Additionally, REDCON also deals in Engineering and has been the face of a number of mega-structures that span the entire country. It boasts of an impeccable record of quality workmanship, adherence to standard safety levels and sustainable building technologies. Alexandria Steel Forming Company has been in the steel manufacturing industry for over 50 years developing trust and a huge market share both in and out of Egypt. Priding itself on quality, excellence and trust, Alex Group has made tremendous steps as concerns technology and has therefore been able to acquire about 60,000 square metres of machinery and facilities. The group plans to explore wider markets and also stay relevant through research, innovation and also training of staff as well as being responsible members of the planet through embracing green practices. Amer is one of the leading real estate developers in Egypt offering mixed-use family oriented destinations and property developments. The group  has also diversified and is currently involved in the development of hotels, restaurants and shopping malls among other facilities. Having been in the industry for over two decades, Amer Group already has 5 operational hotels and additional facilities in the pipeline. Palm Hills specializes in the development of integrated residential, commercial real estate and resort projects. It was founded in 2005 by Mansour & Maghraby Investments and Developments-  a Company listed in the stocks market- and has a development portfolio spanning across the years and even some projects in Saudi Arabia. Currently, Palm Hills has the largest land banks in the country and also has a portfolio of 26 projects in different levels of development.  The company has property both in the east and West of Cairo as well as the North. Egypt’s premier real estate developer Al- Ahly development prides in offering  customers the ultimate luxury, comfort, quality service and technology while paying attention to the highest environmental standards. Al-Ahly Development boasts 23 years of experience in upscale residential s and a total of 56 projects covering 12 Million square metres of development. The company deals in luxurious apartments and has completed several projects with most being sold out due to their quality and attention to detail. Among completed projects are Darah Gardens, Sunterra, Piacerra, The Square, Katameya Residence, Katameya Hills and the Grand Residence.