KOHLER® Africa, bathroom specialists pride themselves on the utmost quality where your bathroom becomes a haven – a sanctuary designed to escape from the day to day domestic responsibilities. It is with this in mind that Kohler has created a superior blend of comfort and convenience in their new ModernLife™ bathroom range. Every aspect of the contemporary design has been crafted with the aim of achieving ultimate hygiene. It is designed for cleanliness, comfort, and convenience. The ModernLife™ wall-hung toilet is the new standard in effortless hygiene and cleaning offering an ultra-thin easy-lift seat – keeping necessary contact to a minimum. The seat itself is removable with a simple vertical lift – perfect for the ultimate in bathroom cleanliness. and having a slim design seat. Created with timeless simplicity in mind, the Kohler ModernLife™ basins follow the trend in contemporary countertop basin design with a gorgeous sense of simplicity. The DFI coating reinforces its modern aesthetic and makes for effortless cleaning in a single swift motion. Seamless – soft curves and clean lines ensure there are no hidden areas making cleaning easy and fast. Available in two variants – choose between the vessel without a tap deck, or the vessel which includes a tap deck. ModernLife™ is versatile: Perfect for small bathroom design in the modern apartment or equally for generous spaces that demand the best trending bathroom ideas. Its elegant design reinforces the functional aesthetic of these bathroom essentials – simplifying cleaning requirements to make modern life just that much more – effortless. Since 1873, Kohler has been leading the way in style, innovation and providing exceptional products and services. Kohler has firmly established itself as a global leader in bathroom and kitchen products – providing total design solutions that strike a perfect balance between form and function. Founded in 1873 and headquartered in Kohler, Wisconsin, Kohler Co. is one of America’s oldest and largest privately held companies comprised of more than 30,000 associates. With more than 50 manufacturing locations worldwide, Kohler is a global leader in the manufacture of kitchen and bath products; engines and power systems; premier furniture, cabinetry and tile; and owner/operator of two of the world’s finest five-star hospitality and golf resort destinations in Kohler, and St Andrews, Scotland.