Work on the Gelegele Seaport is in progress as there is sufficient economic justification for its development. According to Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki the project will serve as an agro-processing zone and will be driven by the state government and the private sector. Besides, Gelegele seaport will serve as an export processing zone, given that consultation is ongoing with the appropriate agencies. It will be located where there is enough gas that can be used to generate electricity and power industries. Also read: Nigeria intends to connect all seaports, airports and inland container depots by rail “There is sufficient economic justification for the Gelegele port and we will raise funds from the private sector to develop the facility. We do not believe that the federal government will stop or discourage Edo State from building a Port that is economically viable,” said Governor Godwin Obaseki. The Governor also confirmed that the seaport is on course as his administration is engaging the consultants who are currently working on the designs and conducting studies on water depth, the width of the river and the amount of dredging needed. He further assured Edo people that a lot was being done to make the project a reality within the shortest and realistic time possible. Also read: Nigeria urged to speed up seaport rehabilitation plans The governor received the report from the Technical Committee on the actualisation of the Gelegele Sea Port, led by its chairman, Greg Ero. Obaseki had commended the committee for a job well done and noted that the project was a critical infrastructure in the state. He stressed the role of water transportation as a major driver of economic activity, noting that moving goods through the waterways remain one of the fastest means to grow the economy. According to him, the Gelegele Seaport is essential in view of the incoming investment to the state, as the setting up of a sea port will enhance the evacuation of agricultural produce in a cost-efficient manner to both the local and global markets. He said the move to establish the port is apt and in line with the federal government’s economic recovery plan, which stipulates that states develop economic plans that will stimulate exportation.