In the third quarter of 2017, Konecranes received a repeat order for two Konecranes Gottwald Model 8 Floating Cranes from Winning Logistics Company Limited (Winning Logistics). From mid-2018, the two new machines will transship bauxite off the coast of Guinea on the open sea. Winning Logistics, a member of the Singapore-based Winning International Group, has been operating Konecranes Gottwald Floating Cranes since 2015 when it began its bauxite transshipment activities. Since then its off-shore bulk handling activity has grown and the company has ordered two more Konecranes Gottwald Floating Cranes. Also read: Dangote acquires largest crane in Africa Wang Chuanyang, General Manager, Winning Logistics says: “With the new delivery, our fleet will consist of six Konecranes Gottwald Floating Cranes, helping Winning Logistics to reach its growth objectives. The cranes play a key role in the supply chain of Guinea.” On its way from the mining regions to end-users, bauxite is shipped on river barges to the open sea where the floating cranes load it onto oceangoing vessels heading for Asia. Giuseppe Di Lisa, Sales and Marketing Director, Mobile Harbor Cranes, Konecranes Port Solutions, says: “We are proud to have received a repeat order from Winning Logistics. This is a clear expression of the customer’s satisfaction with the performance and efficiency of the Konecranes Gottwald Floating Cranes in operation off the coast away from quay infrastructure.” Built for the open sea, Konecranes Gottwald Model 8 Floating Cranes are designed in accordance with the Lloyd’s Register Code for lifting appliances in a marine environment. They are able to operate at wind speeds up to 24 m/s and maximum wave heights of 2.5 m. The new machines feature 63-t grab curves and a maximum lifting capacity of 100 t, allowing the customer to lift project cargo such as heavy machinery. Also read: New flat-top tower cranes from Comansa CM Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides productivity enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment of all makes. In 2016, Group (comparable combined company) sales totaled EUR 3,278 million. The Group has 16,600 employees at 600 locations in 50 countries. Konecranes class A shares are listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki