Customers expect Cat® Paving Products to offer machines and services that help them become more efficient and profitable. These new models do just that by making them easy to operate, simple to transport, and quick to service. The new CB2.5, CB2.7, CB2.9, and CC2.6 utilize a weight based nomenclature that signifies its standard operating weight in metric tonnes, making it easy for customers to choose the machine that best fits their needs. These new models provide excellent versatility in the 2.5 mt to 2.9 mt size class. Typical applications include streets, bike paths, courtyards, patchwork, parking lots, driveways, town centers, and shoulder work. Simple operating features include toggle-type switches for quick and easy activation of machine functions. The straight forward analog display provides fuel level, engine temperature, and machine hours for quick reference. Effortless starting is achieved through its unique glow-plug technology that makes starting easier. Moving to a new job site has never been easier. The single point lifting option and durable hitch design makes hoisting the machine onto transport vehicles quick and easy. The foldable ROPS option provides a short transport height and enables the machine to move under and around low structures when performing compaction procedures. Simple diagnostics and accessible service checks are keys to optimizing machine production. These new utility compactors are equipped with fuses and relays that enable service personnel to quickly troubleshoot root causes without utilizing specialized equipment. Visual indicators for airflow, fuel/water separator, cooling, hydraulic, and water spray systems help optimize routine service checks and keep machines working. These new models are designed to easily fit in the rental fleet. Product Link™ capability enables close monitoring to keep owners informed of machine location and service needs. The simple control panel and spacious platform offer comfort to suit a variety of operators. Durable components and the fuel efficient engine maximize uptime and lower lifetime operating costs. These new Utility Compactors are equipped with a C1.5 engine that meets emissions equivalent to U.S. EPA Tier 4 Interim, EU Stage IIIA, and China Stage III emission standards (Note: EU Stage IIIB emissions standards do not apply to this power ratings class). It delivers 22.3 kW (30.3 hp) of power and performs effectively in the toughest conditions. Caterpillar rolls out products and services in each of its territories at different time intervals. Although every effort is made to ensure that product information is released only after Caterpillar has received confirmation from our dealer network, our plants, and our marketing subsidiaries that products and services are available in the relevant region, editors are kindly requested to verify with their local dealer for product availability and specifications.