The Sarova Woodlands Hotel &amp; Spa, located off the main Nairobi-Nakuru highway, next to State House, is a tranquil retreat for travellers on business or leisure. This will be the second property by Sarova Hotels in Nakuru County after the Sarova Lion Hill Game Lodge, located in Lake Nakuru National Park.Sarova Woodlands Hotel &amp; Spa will feature state of the art conference facilities with a ballroom that can seat up-to 250 guests. There will also be meetings rooms that will cater for smaller numbers ranging from 30-60 guests.The hotel will have 146 luxurious rooms, of which 125 are deluxe rooms and 21 Suites. For the food and beverage experience, guests will be exposed to exceptional culinary delights with a choice of three restaurants.Sarova Hotels Managing Director J.S. Vohra said, We are excited about this new venture. The vibrancy in the Kenyan hospitality sector over the past few years has led to great competition among the established and new operators. In Nakuru County, we realised a gap for a luxurious business hotel. In line with Sarova s commitment to offering refreshing African hospitality, we are confident that our guests will enjoy the Sarova experience. We believe that Sarova Woodlands Hotel and Spa will be the first of its kind in the county. The hotel will host the award winning Tulia Spa &amp; Wellness centre, home to a wide range of holistic treatments with a promise of complete rejuvenation. There will also be a Health Club which will be fully equipped with state of the art life fitness equipment and steam and sauna facilities.The opening of Sarova Woodlands Hotel &amp; Spa will add to the eight properties that are under the Sarova Hotels portfolio. These are Sarova Stanley, Sarova Panafric, Sarova Whitesands Beach Resort &amp; Spa, Sarova Mara Game Camp, Sarova Lion Hill Game Lodge, Sarova Salt Lick Game Lodge, Sarova Taita Hills Game Lodge and Sarova Shaba Game Lodge. In total, the group with a 40-year history in the hospitality industry, boasts over 1200 rooms in nine hotels, resorts and lodges. Sarova Hotels is an acclaimed brand, well-known for our innovative and unmatched hospitality experience. Our guests can be guaranteed of the same, high quality of service at Sarova Woodlands, added the Managing Director.According to the Sarova Group, each Sarova property is uniquely designed to fill the gap in a particular region. There is no Sarova property that is identical to the other. They all have unique positioning while maintaining the exemplary service design across all the properties. Sarova Woodlands is billed as a tranquil retreat for travelers on business or leisure. It offers the ideal place to break journey for those passing through Nakuru and an unmatched option for guests visiting the town for a holiday, work or a business event. It is a safe, secure, luxurious destination with world class culinary delights, award winning spa, and high end state of the art conference facilities.DesignThe hotel is expected to stand out in the market with its customized interiors and ultramodern facilities. The hotel will employ solar water heating, sound proofing, natural ventilation and lighting, energy efficient AC and ventilation, rain water harvesting and other green elements required of a modern building. There will be eco-showers, sensor taps, knee-operated taps and sensor lighting.Other features include a courtyard with many planters, a foyer, landscaping, basement parking and a modern security system.Interior designers have used imported tiles and local blue stone cladding, mazera stones and paving blocks. There will be artwork in public areas representing an African concept with a contemporary touch.Sarova Woodlands is set to be completed by mid this year. No major challenges have been encountered in the construction period safe for the initial limited parking that has now been addressed through additional basement parking, driving the costs a bit higher than initially envisaged.&nbsp;Project TeamArchitect and Interior Designers Via BraraMEP Building Services GroupStructural Engineers- Tan ConsultMain contractor &#8211; Mavji Kanji &amp; Co LtdElectrical Contractor &#8211; Master Power SystemsPlumbing &#8211; Heer PlumbersInterior fit out Nairobi TimberSoft furnishings &#8211; Nishit and CompanyLifts Kone East AfricaAir conditioning Air SolutionsKitchen and laundry equipment Sheffield SteelICT Star EletronicsBoilers Spenomatic Ltd