KOHLER, one of the world s largest bathroom specialists, seamlessly fuses innovation and technology with their latest Mica Vessel range which is slim, sleek, and ultra-contemporary.Deemed as an absolute showstopper, the Mica Round or Square Vessel has the thinnest edge Kohler has ever produced in a basin.The elegant Mica Vessels emphasise the firm&#8217;s refined sense of innovation and embodies true minimalism, becoming a quintessential centrepiece of modern and contemporary style. This piece draws its popularity thanks to its durability, made of Supramic material for a longer lifespan and which is 1.5 times harder than standard basins, plus the DFI stain-resistant surface coating makes it easier to clean.The Kohler Mica Vessel Features: Kohler s thinnest edge in design, at only 6mm, demonstrating true innovation in bathroom product development.Crafted with Supramic material for durability and extended lifespan. Sealed with an invisible patented DFI coating for stain resistance, and effortless cleaning. Available in two shapes:Round with a diameter of 410 mm Square with a diameter of 393 mmAlso read:US firm Kohler sets up showroom in Kenyan capital NairobiDesigns specifically created for leading edge contemporary bathrooms. &#8220;Mica embodies minimalism in design &#8211; obsessive reduction and refinement, absolute attention to detail to achieve a delicate precision with the fine edge and feel of bone china. This demanded innovation in materials, manufacturing and design. The result: a ceramic that is not just thin but also 1.5 times harder than normal. Mica is beautifully simple &#8211; which like all great minimalist design makes it timeless and universal&#8221; shares Mark Bickerstaffe, Director New Product Development Kohler EMEA and Asia-Pacific.Since 1873, Kohler has been leading the way in style, innovation and providing exceptional products and services. The company has firmly established itself as a global leader in bathroom and kitchen products providing total design solutions that strike a perfect balance between form and function.For more information visit www.africa.kohler.com/highlights or email us contact.africa@kohler.com or call on 011-050 9000.About Kohler Co. Founded in 1873 and headquartered in Kohler, Wisconsin, The Company is one of America s oldest and largest privately held companies comprised of more than 30,000 associates.With more than 50 manufacturing locations worldwide, Kohler is a global leader in the manufacture of kitchen and bath products; engines and power systems; premier furniture, cabinetry and tile; and owner/operator of two of the world s finest five-star hospitality and golf resort destinations in the company , and St Andrews, Scotland.