New hinges with integrated soft-close BLUMOTION allow manufacturers to make special furniture be it larder units, furniture with thin fronts, glass or mirror cabinets.For dark cabinets, Blum now also offers CLIP top BLUMOTION in onyx black. In other words, Blum offers the right fittings solution for countless applications.The new CLIP top BLUMOTION 155 wide-angle hinge by Blum is the same size but offers even more convenience. Tried and tested soft-close BLUMOTION has been completely integrated into the hinge, ensuring that cabinet doors close softly and effortlessly.The cover caps for the hinge boss and arm have been designed for symmetrical use and complete the range. The hinge boasts the usual Blum advantages: boss drilling depth of just 11.5 mm and 3-dimensional adjustment.Being a wide-angle zero protrusion hinge, the new fitting is ideal for applications with inner pull-outs, e.g. the SPACE TOWER larder unit.Special fronts? No problem Glass and mirror fronts and fronts of special materials (such as solid surface materials and HPL panels) need special solutions. Thanks to CLIP top BLUMOTION CRISTALLO, glass and mirror cabinets will still close softly and effortlessly, for soft-close BLUMOTION has now been integrated into the hinge.The adhesion plate is glued on so no drilling is required to implement furniture with glass or mirror doors. The corresponding mounting plate is also available for gluing which is ideal for glass showcases.Blum has also come up with a solution for thin fronts with a thickness of 8 to 13 mm: the new CLIP top BLUMOTION hinge for thin doors with integrated BLUMOTION and a special door fixing method. The innovative fixing method needs a drilling depth of just 6 mm and makes installation quick and simple.Standard mounting plates can be used in the standard position for both hinges. This means that no modifications need be made to cabinets with glass, mirror or thin doors.All three new hinges are zero-protrusion hinges so they are suitable for applications such as the SPACE TOWER larder unit or other cabinets with inner pull-outs. To cover all usual cabinet panel thicknesses, the new hinges are designed for a door overlay of up to 21 mm.Chic in black Blum has responded to the growing demand for elegant looking fittings for fine furniture with CLIP top BLUMOTION in onyx black. Combined with LEGRABOX in terra black, Blum s fittings allow the customer to implement design concepts in dark shades or introduce dark contrasts to light-coloured cabinets not just in kitchens but throughout the home. CLIP top BLUMOTION in onyx black has has already won the iF Design Award 2017 and the German Design Award 2017.