Doesn t matter if it s a pre-fabricated storage building or a custom commercial complex, it s important that you hire a top construction contractor who knows their stuff.You don t want just any contractor; you want a top construction contractor with an impeccable reputation. The reality is there are probably more than enough contractors in your area to choose from. Any number of them can possibly do the job, but you don t want a maybe, and you don t want to make a bad decision.Choosing the right contractor not only means your finished building will be everything you want it to be; it also means the process itself will go smoothly and in a timely fashion. It s simply not worth it to hire a contractor who will not deliver what you want with a minimum of hassle. You want someone with whom you can really work and communicate.Word of mouth is still one of the best ways to find quality services, and when it comes to contractors, the same holds true. Ask people who have experience working with contractors, who have used contractors and who work alongside them. For example: building inspectors.Being in a hurry can cost you money and create headaches. Start looking for a top contractor early on, so you can make an informed decision based on facts.Start making phone calls. Ask them questions and get a feel for the way they work. Do they seem accessible, available, and willing to answer your questions? Or do they simply pressure you into choosing them, and tell you all about how wonderful they are.This is standard, and shouldn t be skipped or glossed over. A top construction contractor should be able to provide a solid list of references, and yes, you should follow up with them.It s one thing to be a good contractor; it s another to be the right contractor. Find out more about how they work, how many projects they take on at once, what their primary area of expertise is, and whether they work with subcontractors, and if so, how long they have worked with them.The process of finding a contractor takes a little time and some research, but you ll be glad you went the extra mile. The above list will help you get started finding the contractor that s a good fit for your project.&nbsp;