The construction industry is faced with major challenges in the coming years. In a wide range of projects new buildings, restorations, and interior finish there will be big demand for progressive and sustainable products. So how can we reconcile energy efficiency, architectural ambition, and superlative home comfort?With its new Elastospray LWP spray foam insulation, BASF combines maximum insulation performance with the best possible environmental protection.Performing strongly for energy-efficient and esthetically exciting construction The Elastospray LWP systems are the consistent further development of the proven spray foams from BASF.In addition to improving environmental compatibility, they deliver the accustomed superlative insulation, thanks in particular to its closed-cell structure. Its excellent product properties make Elastospray LWP the prime choice for all applications demanding speedy, simple, cost-effective, and sustainable construction methods.Suitable for almost all areas of the building envelope, the material impresses above all with its low thermal conductivity owing to its closed-cell structure and air-tightness while permitting insulation without thermal bridges. In addition, it displays immaculate mechanical properties such as high compressive strength and appropriate water vapor permeability.In residential or commercial buildings, new or renovated, Elastospray LWP is an assurance of comfort and an outstanding interior climate.Swift Response to EU Directive In its bid to curb climate change, the European Union aims to drastically reduce fluorinated gases (F-gases) with high Global Warming Potential (GWP). The associated EU Regulation is targeting a two-thirds cut in F-gas emissions across Europe by the year 2030. For industry, this means substituting hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), as conventionally used as blowing agents in spray foam, with eco-friendlier alternatives. Climate change ranks among the biggest challenges of our time. At BASF, it is our endeavor to continually develop new products that support reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and sustainable resource use, explains Jesper Bjerregaard, Director Marketing Construction at BASF Performance Materials. With the rapid development and market launch of the Elastospray LWP product line in the course of 2017, BASF ranks among the front runners in the industry.About BASF At BASF, we create chemistry for a sustainable future. We combine economic success with environmental protection and social responsibility. The approximately 114,000 employees in the BASF Group work on contributing to the success of our customers in nearly all sectors and almost every country in the world. Our portfolio is organized into five segments: Chemicals, Performance Products, Functional Materials &amp; Solutions, Agricultural Solutions and Oil &amp; Gas. BASF generated sales of more than 58 billion in 2016. BASF shares are traded on the stock exchanges in Frankfurt (BAS), London (BFA) and Zurich (BAS). Further information at www.basf.com.About BASF s Performance Materials Division BASF s Performance Materials division encompasses the entire materials know-how of BASF regarding innovative, customized plastics under one roof. Globally active in four major industry sectors transportation, construction, industrial applications and consumer goods the division has a strong portfolio of products and services combined with a deep understanding of application-oriented system solutions. Key drivers of profitability and growth are our close collaboration with customers and a clear focus on solutions. Strong capabilities in R&amp;D provide the basis to develop innovative products and applications. In 2016, the Performance Materials division achieved global sales of 6.9 bn