Designed for safe and efficient handling of pipe, ARDCO&#8217;s AMT pipe trailer attachment for the articulating multi-purpose truck (AMT) offers adjustable lengths and increased load capacity, making it ideal for off-road transport in pipeline or utility construction applications.Built specifically for the ARDCO AMT 600, the pipe trailer easily attaches to the truck using a supplied hitch mount with conventional fifth wheel connection. The trailer features a flexible-load rear frame with 45-degree swivel capabilities, trailer axles with available braking system, and various tire options.To protect against damage to pipes or other products, the load surface is constructed of oak timbers and the side pole surface is Teflon-coated. The trailer offers a load capacity of 50,000 lbs. (22,680 kg). Trailer length can be adjusted from a maximum of 35 ft. 8 in. (10.8 m) to a minimum of 22 ft. 2 in. (6.7 m)The pipe trailer is one of many ARDCO attachments compatible with the modular back-end platform of the AMT 600. The AMT 600 is powered by a 250-hp Cummins QSB6.7 Tier IV Final diesel engine, features selectable 4- or 6-wheel-drive, and has a top travel speed of 25 miles per hour.The AMT 600 has a 2-person, fully enclosed, all-weather ROPS cab that is sound rated to 68 dB. A 7-in. display in the steering column provides digital gauges with onboard diagnostics, digital manual access and an optional backup camera display. A streamlined front-end angle offers the driver panoramic visibility to enhance safety.Specifically built for off-road travel, the AMT 600 includes a high-strength center pivot trunnion with approximately 20 degrees of oscillation, which allows all the tires to maintain ground contact and traction while travelling over rough terrain. Dual hydraulic cylinders provide 37 degrees of steering each way, and articulating motion allows the tires to slide left or right in wet/muddy terrain to gain traction, according to the manufacturer.The AMT 600 includes a Dana 6-speed powershift transmission with twist grip shifter and AxleTech rigid planetary axles with driver controlled differential lock.Optional accessories include a hydraulically operated front push blade, front-mounted hydraulic winch, heavy-duty front bumper/brush guard, and auxiliary hydraulics. The AMT 600 is covered by a limited one-year warranty.For more information, call 800/332-7326 or visit www.ardcomfg.com.