BASF put the expanded compounding plant at BASF s Schwarzheide site in Germany into operation. With the expansion of the plant up to 70,000 tons more Ultramid (PA: polyamide) and Ultradur (PBT: polybutylene terephthalate) can be produced each year.This is a further step in the capacity expansions with which BASF is responding to the rising global demand for engineering plastics. BASF s worldwide compounding capacity for PA and PBT will thus reach more than 700,000 tons per year. About 50 new jobs will be created. The bigger plant enables us to accompany our customers growth in the long run, at the highest technical level and with the best plastics, says J rgen Becky, since May 1st, 2017 head of BASF s business unit Performance Materials Europe. The expanded plant represents state of the art technology in the plastics market and gives us even more flexibility in our production process. At the same time, the additional capacity increases flexibility in the global production network of BASF. Thus BASF can, for example, meet the higher expectations of the automotive industry when it comes to the production of high-volume components. With the expansion, Schwarzheide is the site with the biggest PA and PBT compounding capacity within BASF globally.The engineering plastics Ultramid and Ultradur are used to make high-performance components for the automotive, electrical and electronics industries, as well as for the construction and furniture sectors.The components include oil pans, engine mounts, sensors and connectors, chairs and fastening elements. Latest innovations are the specialty Ultramid Advanced N, the charge air duct made of the high-temperature polyamide Ultramid Endure in the new Alfa Romeo Giulia and the TeamUP design chair for the office of the future.About BASF At BASF, we create chemistry for a sustainable future. We combine economic success with environmental protection and social responsibility.The approximately 114,000 employees in the BASF Group work on contributing to the success of our customers in nearly all sectors and almost every country in the world.Our portfolio is organized into five segments: Chemicals, Performance Products, Functional Materials &amp; Solutions, Agricultural Solutions and Oil &amp; Gas. BASF generated sales of about 58 billion in 2016. BASF shares are traded on the stock exchanges in Frankfurt (BAS), London (BFA) and Zurich (BAS). Further information at www.basf.com.About BASF s Performance Materials Division BASF s Performance Materials division encompasses the entire materials know-how of BASF regarding innovative, customized plastics under one roof. Globally active in four major industry sectors transportation, construction, industrial applications and consumer goods the division has a strong portfolio of products and services combined with a deep understanding of application-oriented system solutions.Key drivers of profitability and growth are our close collaboration with customers and a clear focus on solutions. Strong capabilities in R&amp;D provide the basis to develop innovative products and applications. In 2016, the Performance Materials division achieved global sales of 6.9 bn. More information online: www.performance-materials.basf.com.