Applicants for Ghana Institute of Planners membership examination are expected to submit a set of application materials comprising of all those indications in the checklist below: 1. Picture (2 copies passport size) 2. Completed Application Form 3. National Service Certificate 4. Degree Certificate 5. Three sets of work samples 6. Other submission (Specify)Note: Candidate whose submission fall short of the above listed requirements would be disqualified.Requirements 1. Fully completed membership form available at the GIP secretariat or on the Institute s website at www.ghanainstituteofplanners.com 2. Certificate(s) indicating academic qualification(s) in Planning from a recognized University or from any recognized institution of higher learning or from the Institute. The total number of credits from courses leading to such academic qualification in Planning from the GIP shall not be less than 30 credits, and not less than 90 credits from other Institutions. 3. At least three years of post-qualification practical work experience and exhibiting sound knowledge in Development Policy, Planning Techniques, Practice, Procedure and Legislation. 4. National Service Certificate. 5. Two Passport photos. 6. Three different Planning professional outputs, being technical reports, designs or schemes, policy documents, plans etc. These reports or documents should be endorsed by the appropriate Head of Department or institution at work. 7. Participate fully in the Pre-examination training program organized by the Institute. Specific dates for this training will be announced after deadline for submission of application form. 8. Pay the requisite fees for forms and examination, of GH 300.00. Separate fees of up to GH 150.00shall be paid for Membership Certificate and accessories upon qualification.Submission of application materialsCompleted application forms and requisite attachments should be sent to the GIP Secretariat at Block D (Room 9), Service Road, Ministries, Accra in the Head Office building of the Town &amp; Country Planning Department.Enquiries All enquiries should be sent to the Administrative Secretary of GIP through the following contacts:Email: gipcontact1969@gmail.com Website: www.ghanainstituteofplanners.comTel: 0248148724, 0263416663, 0200591723 NB: Registration of planning consultants and firms All Practicing Planning Consultants or firms are required to register on a separate form available at the GIP Secretariat or website.