The Nigerian Institution of Surveyors is perhaps one of the oldest organized Professional bodies in Nigeria. It started in 1934 as the &#8220;Licensed Surveyors Association.&#8221;In 1960, the name was changed to the &#8220;Land Surveyors Association of Nigeria&#8221;. The current name &#8221; The Nigerian Institution of Surveyors&#8221; was adopted at the Enugu Conference in 1960.It is important to state clearly that Membership is derived from the National Body and members are encouraged to affiliate with the nearest NIS State branch but as a member you are welcome in any branch or subgroup of the NIS wherever you find yourself.Your interest in being a member or being elevated from your current status is highly appreciated. It is our pleasure in the secretariat to be of any assistance to getting you admitted or elevated.We have made our membership forms easy to fill and our membership services department is ever ready to ensure that you get all the help to make your admission or elevation successful.Please go through the following tips to ensure your application goes through hitch free Types of Individual Membership:There are 5 categories of Individual Membership in the Institution, namely; Student Probationer Associate Member FellowAdmission into the first four is administered by the secretariat, the membership committee and final approval of the National Council.The Admission into the cadre of Fellowship is administered by the Board of Fellows via their Selection Committee and is not covered by this publication.Requirements The following are the requirements for the cadres of membership covered by this documentation.I. Student Any individual who is currently undergoing a course of study in any approved institution of surveying in Nigeria.II. Probationer Any individual who processes an HND in Land Surveying and Geoinformatics or SURCON Technologists Registration Certificate AssociateAny individual who processes a B Sc. Or Professional Diploma in Land Surveying and Geoinformatics or SURCON Pupil Surveyors Registration Member Any individual who has 2 years Post SURCON Registration and Application to be endorsed by 2 Financial FellowsPersonal Information When filling your personal Information please ensure you write clearly. For contact information do use your primary (most used or reliable) GSM number and email address. The secretariat will use these to send you vital information.Academic/ Professional Qualifications You are simply required to state the qualification, the institution and the year of acquiring the qualification. Since you will be attaching a copy of your certificates other details will be obtained from them. Sponsors It is required that you have two sponsors. For all categories the NIS Branch Chairman of the state you are affiliated is one of the sponsors.For Student membership the Head of Department or Institution is the other while for other cadres any Corporate Member can be the second sponsor. It is important that your sponsor is financial (that is up to date in payment of his/her dues). If you are in doubt ask your sponsor before they sign or confirm form the Membership Services Department of the secretariat.Attachments You will be required to submit along with your dully filled membership application form the following; Evidence of Date of Birth Copies of Academic and Professional Qualifications Letter of Recommendation from State Branch Chairman (in all cases except Student Application) Copies of Evidence of payment of Form and Processing Fees