To ensure and promote professional standards in the industry, Quantity Surveyors Registration Board of Nigeria (QSRBN) is legally empowered to register individuals and firms authorised to practice Quantity Surveying in Nigeria.The Registration Committee of the Board processes and recommends those to be registered as quantity surveyors or practising firms by the Board.QSRBN registers the qualified Quantity Surveyors and issues them with certificates of registration. In addition, the Board produces and issues stamps and seals to registered Quantity Surveyors for use in their professional practiceThe Board has three categories of registrations &#8211; two for individuals and one for Firms Full Registration for Nigerians Temporary Registration for non-Nigerians Registration for FirmsFull Registration for Nigerians The requirements for registration as a Quantity Surveyor are: 1. Processing Fee Payment of N20,000 (Twenty Thousand Naira) for Registration Form and Processing Fee in Bank draft/certified cheque, or pay into our Bank Account: BANK: Diamond Bank Plc A/C No: 0003320759 A/C Name: Quantity Surveyors Registration Board of Nigeria. 2. Send the bank pay slip to the Board Send the bank pay slip to the Board either personally, by courier or via the Board&#8217;s email: address: qsrbn.rqs@gmail.com. o Photocopies of all academic and Professional Certificates o All enclosed certificates should be duly signed and stamped by your two (2) recommenders (who have a current certification with the board) with their QS registration stamp or seal. o WASC/GCE (O/L) certificates must contain 5 credits including English Language, Physics and Mathematics and any other two (2) relevant subjects at not more than two (2) sittings. 3. Passport Photographs o The two (2) Passport Photographs should be counter-signed by the two (2) recommenders who must have a current certification with the Board. 4. Sworn Declaration o Sworn Declaration as contained in Paragraph 5.0 of the form (Form No: QSRBN/F/001) 5. Certificate of Experience o 1st &amp; 2nd Year Experience should be completed by past or present employer who must be a Registered Quantity Surveyor with a current certification with the Board. o In the absence of Certificate of Experience, Letter of Attestation should be presented from either one or two RQS (as the case may be) who had supervised the applicant and who must also have a current certification with the Board.NB: Forward completed FORMS to No. 21, 4th Avenue (Sa&#8217;adu Zungur Avenue), Gwarinpa, AbujaCONDITIONS FOR REGISTRATION OF FIRM/COMPANY The requirements for registration as a Quantity Surveying Firms are: 1. Registration FORM is obtained for N30,000 paid into QSRBN Account or by Bank draft:Account Name: Quantity Surveyors Registration Board of Nigeria. Account Number: 1012681223 Bank: Zenith Bank Plc and the bank payment teller (blue copy) presented before submission of FORM. 2. At least one of the Partners/Directors must a Registered Quantity Surveyor duly registered by the QSRBN with current Practice Licence . 3. Quantity Surveying Firms/Companies must be registered with Corporate Affairs Commission (C.A.C.) and a photo-copy of the Certificate and other documents attached. 4. Firms are expected to show evidence of execution of Professional Indemnity Insurance cover of N10 million minimum.