Common Dump Trucks Many of our projects will need dump trucks to get the work done. Dump trucks are used to move aggregates from one point to another and using the hydraulic components to lift up the rear contents so it can fall to the ground. These trucks are available in many configurations and sizes so here we are presenting the dump trucks commonly used in the construction industry. Always remember to check your federal and state weight restrictions or frost prohibitions when selecting your dump truck.Also known as articulated trucks. Off-roads are big trucks used essentially for mining operations or in situations where large amount of aggregate needs to be hauled. Their big size and heavy load makes them ideal for off-road situations(rough terrain) and not recommended for being used over roads or developed areas and they are among the best when hauling ling distances. They are capable of handling loads larger than 40 tons and up to 60 tons. Articulated dump trucks have a hinge in between the cab and the bed box.Transfer dump trucks are trucks pulled by a separate trailer. The main characteristic of transfer dump trucks is that the separate trailer has a movable cargo container. This configuration will maximize loads capacity without losing maneuverability. The separate container is powered by an electric motor mounted on the tractor that travels on wheels rolling into the trailer frame of the main dump truck. There is variation of a transfer dump truck allowing you to add other cargo containers to the main truck. Be careful, as this type of configuration is not allowed in all states due to weight restrictions.Side dump trucks are one of the fastest dump trucks to unload. They have one of the largest capacity of these type of trucks, and they have the characteristic that it will tilt to the side to dump the material into the ground. They offer safety against tipping over although because of their length, they have limited maneuverability. Because of their characteristic, these trucks cannot always be used and they are preferred in projects on which the site has plenty of space and room. However, side dump trucks will carry less volume of load than traditional standard dumpThe regular dump truck is the most common one used in the construction industry. The dump chassis is lifted by a hydraulic ram mounted between the cab and the truck body. It has one front axle and one or more rear axles. The common configurations for standard dump trucks include the six-wheeler and ten-wheeler. They offer great maneuverability, however, they can not be used over soft soils.There are other dump trucks configuration although not as common as the previous one. These are some additional dump truck types:&nbsp;