Enerpac introduces the SL300 Hydraulic Gantry, the company&#8217;s latest innovation in the SL series of telescoping hydraulic gantries. Equipped with two stage lifting cylinders, the SL300 lifts up to 22 feet at the top of the second stage and can handle up to 337 tons in the first stage.Designed to meet stringent safety requirements, the SL300 complies with the safety standards set by ASME B30.1-2015. To ensure quality performance, each gantry is tested to 125 percent of capacity at full extension and witness-tested by a qualified, third-party organization. The SL300 is also CE-compliant. Providing a more advanced solution than standard lifting systems, the SL300 Hydraulic Gantry offers unique features such as a wireless control system and integrated self-propelled drive system. It&#8217;s sized to fit our 24-inch track gage, said Peter Crisci, Enerpac. These features, combined with safe, reliable performance, allow our customers to satisfy their complicated lifting applications. Featuring the Intellilift wireless control system, the SL300 provides optimum performance and allows for unobstructed views of the load. The control system allows users to operate the lift locally at each leg or use the Intellilift remote control. The wireless system ensures automatic synchronization of lifting with accuracy of 1 inch and automatic synchronization of travel with accuracy of 0.60 inch.For enhanced durability, the SL300 offers a sturdy, proven base frame that can withstand a variety of environmental conditions. It can also be equipped with a powered side shift for easy operation.Enerpac is a global market leader in high pressure hydraulic tools, controlled force products and solutions for precise positioning of heavy loads. Enerpac manufactures products, from the smallest hydraulic cylinder to complete computer-operated lifting and positioning systems, to provide our customers with innovative solutions that increase productivity, are cost effective, and make work safer and easier to perform.For more information on the SL300 Hydraulic Gantry, visit: enerpac.com.&nbsp;