The Global Construction Stone Market is expected to grow over the CAGR of around 9% during the period 2016 to 2023; this is according to an Half-Cooked Research Report (HCRR) released by Market Research Future (MRFR) The Market is majorly driven by the increase in the investments in the construction of commercial, residential and public infrastructure. The market is also driven by the growth in new construction and renovation activities that are being led by the aging of old building structures. The abundance of the natural rocks with high reinforcement properties, is also leading to the increased use of construction stone during the construction activities in residential, commercial and public sector. Key Players: The key players of Global Construction Stone Market are AbleGroup (Malaysia), Benchmark Building Supplies Ltd (U.K), Caesarstone Ltd (Israel), Cosentino Group S.A. (Spain), OJSC LSR Group (Russia), Dakota Granite Co.  (U.S), Daltile (U.S), Duracite (U.S.), Marazzi Group S.r.l (Italy), Precision Countertops (U.S),  Vangura Surfaces Products (U.S)  and others. Sample Report Market Research Analysis: Based on all types of products, the construction stone market has been segmented as construction aggregates and natural stones. Construction aggregate is a coarse particulate material highly used in all forms of construction. The major constituent of construction aggregates are sand, gravel, crushes stone, slag, recycled concrete and geo-synthetic aggregates. The construction aggregates segment is expected to grow at the highest rate during the forecast period. Its growth can be attributed to its high reinforcement property, which develops a strong infrastructure, while the growth of natural stones segment could be attributed to conventional style of construction predominant in rural and emerging rural areas. Based on applications, the construction stone market has been segmented as public infrastructure, commercial infrastructure and residential infrastructure. The residential segment is expected to grow the fastest during the forecast period. The growth can be attributed to the rapid improvement in the construction activities for residential buildings, townships and high-rise buildings. Some of the factors leading to the increased demand for living spaces are the overall development of global economy and stable monetary situations, which are adding to the growth of the residential segment of the construction stone market. Scope of the Report: This study provides an overview of the global construction stone market, tracking two market segments across four geographic regions. The report studies key players, providing a five-year annual trend analysis that highlights market size, volume and share for North America, Europe, Asia Pacific (APAC) and Rest of the World (ROW). The report also provides a forecast, focusing on the market opportunities for the next five years for each region. Report Details The scope of the study segments the Global Construction Stone Market by its product, application and region. By Type: By Application: By Region: About Market Research Future: Market Research Future (MRFR) enable their customers to unravel the complexity of various industries through their Cooked Research Report (CRR), Half-Cooked Research Reports (HCRR), Raw Research Reports (3R), Continuous-Feed Research (CFR), and Market Research & Consulting Services. MRFR team have supreme objective to provide the optimum quality market research and intelligence services to the clients. Their market research studies by products, services, technologies, applications, end users, and market players for global, regional, and country level market segments, enable the clients to see more, know more, and do more, which help to answer all their most important questions. In order to stay updated with technology and work process of the industry, MRFR often plans and conducts meetings with the industry experts and industrial visits for its research analyst members. 