The US Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) has given a grant of over US $860,000 to Buipe Solar in support of a viability study for a 20MW PV solar project in Ghana.Also read:AFD grants South Africa US$477m to advance national power gridBuipe Solar has chosen US firm WSP Parsons Brinckerhoff to carry out the feasibility study on the solar project in Ghana. South African renewables firm BioTherm Energy will be developing the plant. All in all, the project represents a US export potential of up to US$17.4 million in PV equipment as well as modules, inverters, racking and engineering services.The grant was signed by the US ambassador to Ghana, Robert P. Jackson, and Buipe Solar s director, Andre Dippenaar. This scheme progresses the objectives of Power Africa, a US government-led initiative to boost electricity access across sub-Saharan Africa.Jackson added that the project represents Ghana s very first cut throat -bid energy tender. Ghana has one of the peak rates of electricity in the Sub-Saharan region. This cutthroat procurement of energy will drastically assist to reduce energy costs for locals.The viability study will emesh technical, environmental and social analysis to guarantee the project meets the suitable standards. We are proud to link Buipe Solar with a principal US company on this vital project to increase energy access in Ghana, said Lida Fitts, USTDA s regional director for Sub-Saharan Africa. We re pleased to be chosen as technical services partner for the Buipe Solar PV viability study, said Mike Huisenga, manager of the Renewable Energy Group for WSP Parsons Brinckerhoff. We look ahead to continuing our contribution to the power sector in Ghana, and we re thrilled to play such a significant role in helping to progress the nation s renewable energy goals. Kwasi Boateng, Buipe Solar s and BioTherm s representative in Ghana said: This solar project will lead to direct and indirect employment for the Northern area, as well as build competencies and knowledge in a sector that is here to stay. 