Rumaisa is an iconic development in Nairobi that will redefine the concept of urban luxury living. It seems that with every project that Aleem Manji Architects undertake, the firm outdoes itself in terms of imagination.Set on 1.5 acres in the tranquil Riverside area of Nairobi which is home to high end residential and commercial developments as well diplomatic missions, Rumaisa is designed to provide the ultimate in luxury. It employs an open plan guaranteeing fresh air circulation and plenty of natural light. It strikes a balance between private seclusion and group entertainment.The entire development consists of 66 duplex apartments (35 three-bedroom and 31 four-bedroom) housed on 19 levels. These apartments feature ensuite bedrooms, a family room and servant s quarters.There are nine blocks distributed around the courtyard with at least two having river frontage. The rooftop interconnects all the nine blocks allowing one to walk from one block to the other. On level 5, the architect has created eight units with a private garden for each.Major AttractionsThe development has three rooftop infinity pools, including a heated one, where residents can unwind as they marvel at the breathtaking view of the city. Other attractions include pool bar, gym, open air Jacuzzi, kids play area and a fireplace.The courtyard itself is a story on its own. The lower courtyard garden consists of an undisturbed riparian ecosystem that provides a cool and serene wild environment. A large lawn opens to the middle of the courtyard and offers different possibilities from play to group parties. The cascading pool featuring a mazeras path across it opens into a meditation space that is laid out with benches. The front fa ade of the garden overlooks a 30 ft high waterfall on an art wall creating the experience of a high falling sheet of water when lit at night.The waterfront promenade is a long water feature occurring in the middle of the courtyard. It creates precedent and connects the upper floor spaces to the lower courtyard through a waterfall. The still pool at the reception garden consists of fountain jets that create a gushing effect. The art wall separates the water garden from the parking. The relaxation decks occur at different intervals allowing residents to experience a zen atmosphere.InteriorsThe interiors are simple but elegant, creating an airy look with large floor to ceiling windows. A limited palette of materials has been used such as minimal gypsum ceilings, wood effect tile and soft white walls. Each apartment has been furnished with interior finishes from renowned European companies to create a perfect home environment.Kitchens, Bedrooms and BathroomsThe open plan layout from the main entrance consists of the kitchen, dining and living rooms in a modern sophisticated and functional design. The kitchen cabinetry is by high end Italian manufacturer ENNE. The kitchen steps away from the typical layout to consist of play in levels, from half height columns with inbuilt appliances to hanging cabinets. Granite worktops, stainless steel finished appliances and a neutral palette for cabinets exudes a welcoming atmosphere.The bedrooms are spacious with wardrobes and ensuite bathrooms opening up to a balcony overlooking the courtyard and the city skyline.Bathrooms have Spanish tiles. A monochromatic selection of tiles and sanitary ware in the bathroom exudes an unparalleled ambience to unwind.Project TeamClient: Globe Developers LtdProject Managers: Villapoint Company LtdArchitect: Aleem Manji ArchitectsQuantity Surveyor: Tower Cost Consultants LtdStructural Engineer: Abba &amp; Wandu EngineersServices Engineers: Aruna Patel &amp; AssociatesInteriors Designer: Studio AuroraLandscape Architects: Urban Green