The Secluded Hideaway is a high end apartments project located along Makindi Road in the Riara area of Kilimani, Nairobi.Riara is an upmarket suburb of Nairobi with well-developed infrastructure and an extensive network of social amenities befitting modern lifestyles. It is an excellent place to live in.The development by Blue Eagle Developers Limited features 3-bedroom units in a mellow combination of comfort and utility. Designed by leading Kenyan architectural firm Symbion, the apartments offer stunning views of the serene surroundings. The apartments are designed to maximize efficient yet comfortable living spaces, offering among others tasteful d cor and a host of amenities.The entire development consists of 44No. 3 Bed units and 4No. Penthouses, and a gate house with a guard room.At 260 square meters, the 3 bed units feature a cloak room, a spacious lounge which opens up to a terrace, a dining area with a table for 8, an open plan kitchen with breakfast bar and pantry, a scullery and a utility area linking the kitchen to a DSQ accessed from outside.All bedrooms are en suite. The master suite is spacious with a walk in closet and spacious bathroom.At 511 square meters, the pent house units are spread on two levels. The first level features a cloak room, a spacious lounge opening up to a large double-volume terrace, a dining area with seating for 8, a spacious open-plan kitchen with generous worktop space, storage space and a breakfast bar, a scullery and utility area linking the kitchen to a DSQ accessed from outside. This level also hosts two en suite bedrooms, including a junior bedroom, which contains a spacious bathroom and walk in closet.The second level hosts a family room, a study, and two en suite bedrooms, including a luxurious master bedroom, which entails a bed area, a sitting area, a large walk in closet and a large bathroom equipped with a double shower, Jacuzzi, WC cubicle and his and hers vanity top.The units are laid out 4No. per level around a vertical circulation core, hosting two lifts and a fire escape staircase.Amenities include 2 parking spots per house, a gym and infinity pool with changing facilities, a landscaped garden at the approach, a play area for children and an administrative office.Other amenities and services include Voice and Data, a standby generator, and underground and overhead water storage tanks ensuring un-interrupted water supply.To conserve energy, solar panels for water heating have been deployed in the development.The architects have incorporated a roof garden in the project design. Roof gardens are popular additions in modern building designs especially in the West and Far East. Besides their decorative benefit, roof plantings aid in temperature control.The project commenced in August 2015 and is expected to be complete in August 2017. The units are available for sale through the agent Hass Consult.Client: Blue Eagle Developers LtdArchitects: Symbion Kenya LtdQuantity Surveyors: Consting ConsultStructural/Civil Engineer: Shelter ConsultElectrical &amp; Mechanical Engineer: Electro ConsultMain Contractor: Sava Builders Ltd