The completion of the construction of Nyabarongo hydropower project in the western part of Rwanda is one landmark that promises to provide residents with reliable power. The project is the largest hydropower installation in Rwanda. It contributes more than 28MW of electricity to the national grid. The development of a modernised energy system for developing countries especially has been a significant challenge to energy utilities. The completion of this mega project in Rwanda should give African economies hope and reassurance on why it is important to invest in the energy industry. In rural areas, the main source of electrification is diesel generators. Their progressive use is becoming unsuitable and very expensive. As a result, investing in clean energy is yet another lesson for many African economies. The Nyabaroingo project is a manifestation of how Rwanda takes the energy sector as an important pillar towards economic development. Hopefully, continuous investment in the energy sector and introduction of new technologies will make Rwanda a conducive place for business. Such an investment means more private investments. There will also be increased access to electricity and a reduction in the cost of production. It is also a manifestation of how important public private sector partnerships are in terms of economic development of emerging economies. The partnership between Angelique International, Bharat Heavy Electrical Limited and government made the construction of this mega plant possible. It is now helping shape the country’s social economic structures through increased power connectivity. This clearly shows that investing in energy projects can be more productive when all stake holders make a contribution. Ravu Venugopala Rao, the vice President, Angelique International Limited recently said  “The completion of Rwanda’s mega power plant at Nyabarongo water falls is a boon for the people of Rwanda by all standards. There is therefore no price tag one can put on the project that has cost the country more than $110 million Such a project could only see a reduction in government expenditure on importation of diesel. This is from a tune of $12.9 million every month to at least $7.4 million.