Siemon, a leading global network infrastructure specialist, has expanded its line of LightHouse™ advanced fibre cabling solutions in Africa with LightStack® 8. This new ultra high-density plug and play system offers efficient and cost-effective support of current and future 8-fibre applications. LightStack 8 provides an easy and efficient migration path to 40 and 100 Gb/s speeds in data centre switch-to-switch backbone links to enable faster data transmission, processing and storage of larger, more complex sets of data generated by the Internet of Things (IoT) as well as storage intensive and cloud-based applications. With current 40 and 100 gigabit multimode fibre applications, as well as future 200 and 400 gigabit fibre applications based on 8 optical fibres LightStack 8 offers a complete end-to-end Base 8 fibre system and enables 100% fibre utilization for the most efficient support of these 8-fibre applications. The new system consists of 1U and 4U fibre enclosures, modules, adapters, assemblies and jumpers.  With a capacity to hold 144 LC fibres or 864 MTP fibres in 1U or 576 LC fibres and 3456 MTP fibres in 4U it enables ultra high-density for deployment in tight fitting data centre spaces. Sliding bottom rear divider and swing-open cable management clips allow for easy port access and cable management in densely packed areas. Integrated strain relief and an easy-open magnetic door protect the fibres and eliminate potential cable pinch points. “LightStack has long been our premium ultra high-density plug and play fibre system,” says Lee Funnell, technical manager at Siemon. “With current and future fibre applications all dominated by fibre counts that are divisible by 2 or 8 fibres, LightStack 8 offers the simplest, most efficient migration to 40 or 100 Gb/s and beyond. At the same time the new system maximizes fibre utilization and maintains all of the LightStack features and benefits our customers have come to appreciate.” The system includes low-loss LightStack 8 modules that transition 1 Base 8 MTP to 4 duplex LC connectors, as well as LightStack 8 MTP pass-through adapter plates to support day one 40 Gb/s or 100 Gb/s applications. LightStack 8 LC pass-through adapter plates for duplex applications are also available. These modules and adapter plates can be quickly and easily inserted or removed from either the front or rear of the enclosure. The system also includes Base 8 plug-and-play MTP trunk assemblies, MTP jumpers and hybrid equipment cords for backbone and equipment connections. Available in low loss OM4 multimode and OS1/OS2 singlemode, Siemon’s new ultra high-density plug and play system features smaller diameter RazorCore™ fibre to significantly reduce cable diameter of assemblies and provide a 2mm diameter MTP jumper. The system also includes Base 8 MTP to LC hybrid assemblies as an alternative to modules for support of 10 Gb/s and 4 X 10G Base 8 MTP to LC BladePatch® assemblies that feature the innovative push-pull latch activation of the BladePatch plug for easy access in tight fitting areas. For more information about LightStack 8 and Siemon’s comprehensive Base 8 offering, visit www.siemon.com/plug-and-play Established in 1903, Siemon is an industry leader specializing in the design and manufacture of high quality, high performance low voltage infrastructure solutions and services for data centres, LANs and intelligent buildings. Headquartered in Connecticut, USA, with global sales, technical and logistics expertise spanning 100 countries, Siemon offers a comprehensive suite of copper and optical fibre cabling systems, cabinets, racks, cable management, data centre power and cooling systems and intelligent infrastructure management solutions. With more than 400 patents specific to structured cabling, Siemon Labs invests heavily in R&D and the development of industry standards, underlining the company’s long-standing commitment to its customers and the industry. Siemon Interconnect Solutions (SIS) is a Siemon business unit comprised of a team of dedicated technical sales professionals supported by Siemon Labs, mechanical, electrical and signal integrity engineers committed to solving industry and customer driven interconnect challenges. Siemon provides custom network infrastructure solutions to OEMs, leading manufacturers, value-added resellers and system integrators. 