Here are the world’s top ten construction equipment manufacturers. They build heavy-duty automobiles, specifically designed for implementing construction tasks, most commonly equipment concerning earthwork operations Caterpillar Inc is an American corporation which designs, develops, engineers, manufactures, markets and sells machinery, engines, financial products and insurance to customers via a worldwide dealer network. Caterpillar is a leading manufacturer of construction and mining equipment, diesel and natural gas engines, industrial gas turbines and diesel-electric locomotives. Caterpillar’s headquarters are situated in Peoria, Illinois; it announced in January 2017 that it would move its head office to Chicago. Komatsu Ltd is a Japanese multinational corporation that manufactures construction, mining, and military equipment, as well as industrial equipment like press machines, lasers and thermoelectric generators. Its headquarters are in Minato, Tokyo, Japan. The corporation was established in 1921. Worldwide, the Komatsu Group consists of Komatsu Ltd. and 182 other companies. Komatsu is the second major manufacturers of construction equipment and mining equipment after Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery. Volvo CE – is a key international company that develops, manufactures and markets equipment for construction and related industries. It is an auxiliary and business region of the Volvo Group. Volvo CE’s products consist of a variety of wheel loaders, hydraulic excavators, articulated haulers, motor graders, soil and asphalt compactors, pavers, backhoe loaders, skid steers and milling machines. Volvo CE headquarters are situated in Brussels, Belgium Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. Ltd. is a construction equipment company in Japan, and a Hitachi Group company. It is a first-class company, providing both small and large-scale equipment to clients throughout the world for a varied range of tasks. HCA ensures its equipment is of the uppermost caliber, delivering superior productivity and durability, with minimal operating costs. HCA has products to handle all tasks, including digging, loading, carrying, breaking, grabbing, cutting, crushing, and screening. Clients from metropolitan construction workers to big mining companies rely on HCA’s industry-leading products and reputable servicing and parts in order to achieve optimum productivity and economy. Also Read:Top 10 generator manufacturers in the world The Liebherr Group is a large equipment manufacturer based in Switzerland. It has over 100 companies structured into ten Divisions: Earthmoving, Mining, Mobile Cranes, Tower Cranes, Concrete Technology, Maritime Cranes, Aerospace and Transportation Systems, Machine Tools and Automation Systems, Domestic Appliances, and Components. It has a worldwide workforce of over 42,000, with a turnover of €9,009 million as of 2016. By 2007, it was the world’s largest crane company. Liebherr presently has the world’s most powerful and tallest crawler crane in LR 13000. It is capable of lifting 3000 tones and has a maximum pulley height of 248 meters. This is realized with the attachment of an additional 126m-long lattice jib to the 120m main boom. The height of the crawler framework is an extra 2m, which offers the lattice structure a total height of 248m. For the world record the LR 13000 was fitted with 400 tons of slewing platform ballast and 1500 tons of derrick ballast. As Mr. Gerold Dobler, Liebherr-International Deutschland GmbH points out, the extensiveness of Liebherr’s construction machines program is like no other. Apart from tower cranes of every kind and size and mobile construction cranes, the program includes a broad range of earth moving equipment and hydraulic excavators, wheel loaders, crawler tractors and crawler loaders, telescopic handlers and dumper trucks. “For special underground engineering projects, we supply universal duty cycle crawler cranes or special piling and drilling rigs. Our concreting technology opens up a whole range of solutions for the cost-effective production and optimum transportation of quality concrete,” he adds. Sany is a Chinese multinational heavy machinery manufacturing company headquartered in Changsha, Hunan Province. It is the sixth-biggest heavy equipment manufacturer in the world. Zoomlion is a Chinese producer of construction machinery and sanitation equipment, Its headquarters are in the Zoomlion Science Park in Changsha, Hunan. Zoomlion is world’s sixth largest and China’s major construction machinery enterprise. “In 2008, Zoomlion acquired CIFA, the world’s third largest concrete machinery manufacturer, which was the largest ever European acquisition by a Chinese company at the time Terex Corporation is an American worldwide manufacturers of lifting and material handling solutions for a variety of industries, including construction, infrastructure, quarrying, recycling, energy, mining, shipping, transportation, refining and utilities. The company’s main trade segments include aerial work platforms, construction, cranes, material handling & port solutions and materials processing. Doosan Infracore is an international company that produces various sizes of excavators, loaders and diesel engines, ranging from compact to large-size machinery. Doosan Infracore is up-and-coming as one of the globe’s top-tier engine manufacturers based on its diverse lineup of multi-purpose products, which can meet tougher environmental regulations in the world. Deere & Company is a USA company that are main manufacturers of  agricultural, construction, and forestry machinery, diesel engines, drive-trains (axles, transmissions, gearboxes) used in heavy equipment, and lawn care equipment.