Africa s construction is always on the constant growth however most of the firms have faced challenges that have been hindering them from delivering key projects on time.For instance, if you ask any contractor of any challenge he is facing be it small firm of big the problems are almost the same.Here are the answers you ve been looking for to the biggest problems facing construction professionals today that need urgent solution.1. Lack of Skilled Workers For a while now this has been the major problem that have been facing Africa s construction industry, despite the fact that there are many institutions ready to teach skilled the labour is not enough.skilled workers are needed in large numbers to fill a growing demand. The younger generation is being pushed toward college, and not vocational trades. The benefits of a career in construction are not being sold to millennials, and much of today s existing workforce is closing in on retirement.2. Lack of Communication When things go wrong on a project, it is almost always due to a communication breakdown along the way. Technology is the answer to your communication problems.Two-thirds of Americans own smartphones, so there is a good chance that almost everyone on your project has one.Using email, text messages, and construction technology apps on a project can get information instantaneously to all people on the project in real time and reduce the slowdowns and speed bumps of a communication breakdown.3. Unreliable Subcontractors Many contractors have problems finding reliable subs for their jobs. If you are in a pinch and need to find a sub, check with the materials suppliers and vendors that you work with regularly.They will have the inside scoop, and may have a great recommendation for a sub. You can also ask other subcontractors that you have worked with for a recommendation, too.Always check a sub s licenses, make sure they carry general liability insurance, and list your company as additional insured on their insurance before you hire them.5. High Insurance Costs Contractor insurance is part of the cost of doing business, but that doesn t mean you have to overpay for it. You can get lower rates on your contractor insurance by combining coverage, not letting your coverage lapse, and reviewing your policies each year for changes that may save you money.