We are in 2017 and there is no doubt that the generation we are living in is quite different from the generation our grandfathers used to, therefore the working style has to change due to evolution and technology.However It s no secret that what generation an employee is from dictates their work style and ethic. Baby Boomers born 1945 -1963 prefer detailed directions and guidance, striving to complete the task as quickly and efficientlyas possible as dictated at the outset. They work well in teams, value meetings and look for guidance when necessary.In contrast, many millennials born since 1991 believe that a task naturally evolves and changes along the working timeline and focus more on positive customer interaction and experience rather than expediency of completion. They tend to be more independent, working alone but collaborating on tasks where necessary.Therefore as a manager you have to know how to deal with each of the age group if you have them at your construction site. Here are some actionable tips that can help you create a healthy work environment by eliminating generation gaps:1. Develop a Mentorship program At your work place ensure that you should ensure that you have a mentorship prgramme in that the different generations can learn a lot from each other. Older generations have been working at their jobs for some time, and there s something that real-world experience in any industry teaches you that no amount of time in a classroom will impart.2. Utilise Appropriate Leadership Styles Different generations have different ideas of what a leader should be. For anyone managing a multi-generational team, a one-size-fits-all approach to leadership will not work. Tailor your management style as appropriate for each staff member s individual skills, personality and work ethic.3. Communication is Key Communication is important no matter what, but in a multi-generational team this goes double. Open and clear communication prevents details getting lost in translation, avoiding potential conflict between staff members.This is applicable both in the abstract and the physical. Cubicles and solo offices are great for when someone needs no distractions, but they hinder communication and co-operation. Moving to an open plan layout opens up lines of communications, as well as allowing every staff member to see that every other staff member is pulling their own weight, avoiding potential resentment building up.