Mauritius has made known plans to embark on a number of projects, including the construction of a modern cyber city in Ghana. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade for Mauritius, Mr. Vishnu Seetanah, said the project which was expected to be situated at Dawa in the Greater Accra Region would, however, be subject to authorization by the new government. Also read:Ghana’s Movenpick Ambassador Hotel acquired by a Mauritius based firm The city will be based on high technology where people could work and have fun. It will have innovative towers, conference centers, bank towers, an ICT plaza and serviced plots for regional nerve centers for ICT companies. Mr. Vishnu told the media that the city would bring incorporated development with smart solutions and management resources which would draw high quality professionals.
He was of the outlook that the project would also enhance to tourism, both domestic and foreign. Mr. Vishnu also announced the intent of his nation’s government to support the new administration in the sector of sugar production by setting up sugar factories in districts which would be identified by the two governments as feasible. He said Mauritius wants to support Ghana to become the foremost producer and exporter of sugar in the West African sub region, while using the byproduct of the sugarcane to generate electricity to support the national grid. This project is also expected to generate employment opportunities for the youth of the nation. He said all the projects they plan to undertake in Ghana had the total blessing of financial institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the African Development Bank. “We have an umbrella of support from all these financial institutions and they track our activities zealously,” he noted. The Foreign Affairs Minister of Mauritius also pointed out that Africa would come out as a super power in years to come. “In 15 years, people will line up to be in Africa. But before that happens, we have to demonstrate that we mean business and that we can handle the running of our own nations,” he said.