Earlier this year Case Construction Equipment introduced six new mini excavators, and during the recent GIE+EXPO in Louisville, Kentucky, it debuted its seventh C-Series model, the CX30C. Designed to fit right in the sweet spot for small to mid-size landscapers, the CX30C has an operating weight of 6,020 pounds and has a bucket digging force of 4,520 pounds. Powered by a 24.8 horsepower Tier 4 Final engine, the mini excavator can handle challenging jobsites but is small enough to access and operate in confined areas. It can also be towed by a pickup truck without the need of a CDL (check local and state regulations). Like the rest of the C Series models, this machine has an adjustable offset boom for better maneuvering and features a zero tail swing design. The CX30C provides an Auto-Shift travel system that improves operator comfort when moving over changing terrains. Standard features include an auxiliary flow diverter valve that lets users switch between single and bi-directional flow for various attachments. The cab has adjustable seating, ergonomic controls and improved visibility with line-of-sight digital displays. Maintenance tasks have also been streamlined with easy-to-open panels and grouped ground-level surface checkpoints. Case also used GIE show to debut the TV370 compact track loader (CTL). A maintenance-free Tier 4 Final model, the TV370 is ideal for landscaping, utility and rental applications where users need lift capacity and strength, but not the higher horsepower for high-volume production attachments, the company says. “As the CTL market expands, there are no one-size-fits-all solutions,” said John Dotto, brand marketing manager for CASE. “The new TV370 gives contractors a 74-horsepower option in a large-frame vertical CTL that provides a high capacity, low ground pressure and stable platform for earthmoving, load and lift applications and heavy attachments while utilizing a maintenance-free after-treatment system.” The machine can run traditional attachments with ease and has two hydraulic setups: standard and optional high-flow. The standard setup is 24.2 gallons per minute (gpm) at 100 percent efficiency and the high-flow setup is 37.6 gpm at 100 percent efficiency. “Not every equipment owner needs to run cold planers or high-volume mulching heads, but they still need to load higher trucks and lift heavy pallets,” Dotto said. “The TV370 is for that application.” The TV370 has an 8,775-pound bucket breakout force and a 10-foot, 11-inch hinge pin height. CASE’s new CTL also boasts of one of the widest cabs in the industry and has several design features to improve visibility including, ultra-narrow wire side screens and a large, rounded rear window. Operators don’t have to worry about additional fluids or maintenance activities thanks to a DOC-only FPT engine that meets Tier 4 Final standards. All primary service points can be accessed through a single point and the TV370 has an easy-tilt cab for access to the drivetrain compartment.