Africa continues to embrace new building technologies that can embrace faster, simpler and cost effective construction as development continues its rapid growth. Some markets are looking at prefab structures or concrete panels or similar for low cost housing. However, according to Nazlie Dickson Hydraform the longest standing provider of the interlocking stabilized soil-cement blocks from South Africa, there has been a large resistance for prefab structures due to several reasons: Investing in brick and block making machinery is a smart decision for any business that is looking to get off the ground quickly by producing high-quality products with a low-cost. Once the initial purchase of the machine is made, you will find that the individual component parts are surprisingly affordable, and the profit margins can be very respectable indeed once you have everything worked out. Of course, finding a suitable place to buy brick making machines is not always easy, and it is safe to say you cannot pick one up from your local hardware store. “There are now many cheap copies in the market and many Chinese companies are claiming to be authorized manufacturers or supplying the same. This is simply not true. It is easy to copy physical features of machines but they know how in how to produce quality bricks is not copied and we are seeing many bad bricks and structures in the field as a result. Many clients have purchased these fakes and either been robbed of their money or if they receive goods they do not work. We are often asked to repair or fix these poor machines and clients lose their hard earned money,” Mr. Dickson says. Mr. Dickson advises that, clients should ask for successful referrals from other happy clients. They should ask for the supplier’s approvals and certifications from the local authorities both on the equipment and their bricks. “They should also check to see if the provided information is verifiable so for example if you watch some of the videos of the equipment, there are clever edits to cover problems or if you time the production, it cannot meet what their specifications say,” he adds. According to Gulnara of Betonsen a supplier of block making machinery from Turkey, technical details are also very important when buying brick making machinery. “Technical details like electrical and mechanical parts, are quite essential if the machine is to operate in its full potential and also last for a long time. These parts should be manufactured with renowned manufactures for the sake of spare parts availability and maintenance. Mr. Christopher Maartens of CSC brick and block a producer of all brick and block making machinery from South Africa mentions that, it is paramount to look at the steel that was used to make the machine. “There are a lot of people selling very cheap machines, but it does not last for a month. Ask for a reference and talk to someone who already bought a machine,” he adds. According to Dion Mostert of Zhauns a manufacturer of brick and block making machinery from South Africa, always do your homework on any product you buy, ensure you have a business plan, be realistic in your expectations and be prepared to work hard- nothing good comes free or easy. “Know the brick and block machinery capacity, the time period it takes from the mixture to the laying of the bricks, know how you are going to transport the bricks, understand the purpose of the specific brick as there are different bricks for different purposes and different moulds that manufacture different bricks. Ensure the space you have to store the machine is under cover and make sure you have enough space to work the machine effectively as well as enough space to store the bricks,” he says. Moreover, Mr. Dane Doubell of Makebricks a producer of brick and block making machinery from South Africa, adds that, the community demand is first – is there a need for the bricks or blocks? This is easily determined by the local selling price. It can also be discovered by the waiting period from suppliers. “The site is second – what limitations are there? You need a flat surface for an egg-layer or wooden boards for a static machine – but generally you need 450m² space for 1500 blocks a day. The concrete products set after 6 hours, but should only be moved after 24 hours. They must be watered daily for the hardening process to occur – this is a common mistake made. Check for a water source for a suitable site” he affirms.