VISA SpA, was recently involved in a major contract for the supply of various diesel generators. The units are installed in a large, original complex – a former aircraft engine manufacturing facility in Prague, Czech Republic totaling more than 169.000 sqm. Thanks to an investment group, this ambitious project was recently transformed into a contemporary urban development. The site consists of five areas (Aviatica, Mechanica I, Mechanica II, Walter and Dynamica), a modern and attractive residential district. Johnson & Johnson owns the Onis Visa generating sets installed in the “Mechanica I” building. All the generating sets are installed as emergency power sources, able to cover the load of the entire building complex, including the Data Centre (Johnson & Johnson server room). These operate automatically in case of power failure, thus preventing any loss of data or functionality. Also read:Diesel generators as a form of back-up power for Africa Project: WALTROVKA  Urban project – Mechanica I Location: Prague, Czech Republic Power required:  2 x 400.0 kVA PRP (440.0 in stand-by) and 1 x 645.0 kVA (710.0 kVA in stand-by power) Generator sets supplied: 2 x model F 400 GX 1 x model DS 645 GX Provide a redundant power source to prevent any data and/or functionality loss ensuring the highest level of security. The generating sets are equipped with Iveco and Doosan diesel engines, Marelli alternators and Onis Visa Guard Touch automatic control panels. All units are equipped with an oversized 2500 LT fuel tank. All gensets are installed as an emergency power source for the entire building consumption including the J&J server room. The Onis Visa Distributor in Czech Republic provided not only the genset installation, but also the design, delivery and installation of the central control system for the power supply in main distribution panels. The BMS, designed, set and delivered by the Visa distributor, manages the power supply system. Due to the low-level noise requirements in this area, second stage exhaust silencers were added to all the gensets. The guaranteed maximum noise level is 55dB at 7m at full load. All units are placed on the building roof complying with the strict local security and fire protection requirements, as well as with the customer’s indications. Long autonomy operation is provided by the 2500 Lt oversized fueltanks while the baseframe structure (fitted with retention basin) prevents any liquid leakages. All gensets are connected to the automatic refueling system ensuring 24-hour genset operation at full capacity. The fuel system contains the fuel filling point (located on the ground floor) for the “fuel tank track”, double skinned storage tank (located in the basement), double skinned fully monitored piping system for fuel distribution to the gensets and a control system provides operation of the fuel system. The system visualizes the complete hydraulic diagram, including the status of all sensors, valves, pumps, and fuel tank levels. Project aims:   This project needed a very reliable and technically advanced product able to ensure a high performance level complying with the strict local security and fire protection standards and providing, at the same time, a long operation autonomy of all the subsystems. Project Structure:  The recent supply of machines is considered as a completion of a previous supply. In fact not only Mechanica I building has Onis Visa installations. Other units of Onis Visa gensets are also installed in Mechanica II, Walter and Aviatica buildings, as follows: Mechanica II : 1x F400GX  – genset  with Iveco engine, PRP 400.0 kVA with a 800 litre fuel tank (installed 06/2017) 1x F400GX – genset with Iveco engine, PRP 400.0 kVA , to be installed in the second phase (scheduled for 2018) Walter: 1x F500GX  – genset with Iveco engine, PRP 500.0 kVA with a 950 litre fuel tank (installed 07/2017) Aviatica 1x P1050S  – Genset with Perkins engine – PRP 1000.0 kVA – installed 2015 1x V495GX  – Genset with Volvo engine-  PRP 495.0 kVA –  installed 2015 1x V495GX   – Genset with Volvo engine – PRP 495.0 kVA – scheduled for a later phase Visa SpA is an Italian generating set manufacturer present in the market for more than 50 years.  The company combines its global experience with engineering expertise to provide its product directly in the market or through its network of distributors and dealers. Visa SpA offers customized genset solutions as well as support from the design to installation phases. Onis Visa’s Partner and Distributor for the Czech Republic has been involved in all stages of this project, supporting the final customer with a high level of service and a team of very qualified personnel. Their focus was to exceed the customer’s needs and find the best solutions in terms of quality/price. Besides the genset installation, they provided the design, delivery and installation of the BMS.