GROHE is the world’s leading provider of sanitary fittings and a global brand, dedicated to providing innovative waterproducts. For many decades, GROHE has been committed to the brand values of technology, quality, design and sustainability that all illustrate GROHE’s commitment to creating exceptional experiences and to delivering “Pure Freude an Wasser”.
With its engineering, innovation and design activities firmly anchored in Germany, GROHE products bear the badge of quality “Made in Germany”, ultimately strengthening the customers’ confidence in the brand. All plants of the GROHE manufacturing network make use of high-precision production engineering to ensure compliance with consistently high
GROHE standards. This way GROHE ensures that its products live up to the most uncompromising demands in terms ofworkmanship and functionality. Over the past ten years alone, the success of GROHE has been confirmed by more than 240 design and innovation awards as well as several top rankings as one of “Germany’s most sustainable major companies” and the CSR-Award of the German Federal Government 2017. Numerous high-profile projects around the globe are fitted with GROHE
products, testifying to architects’, designers’ and developers’ preference for the brand. GROHE is part of the LIXIL Group Corporation, a publicly listed company on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. LIXIL is the global market leader in the sanitary ware industry, managing a broad portfolio of well-known household brands such as
GROHE, American Standard, and INAX. It is also Japan’s leading provider of housing and building materials, products
and services. Also read:Constructing the new capital of Egypt Creating the perfect blend of quality, design, technology and sustainability is a core competency at GROHE, the leading sanitary manufacturer. The importance of these brand values is also reflected in the innovations presented by GROHE at the world-leading ISH trade show in Frankfurt. Many of the new GROHE products showcased from 14 to 18 March have already won renowned design awards. All told, the company‘s in-house Design Studio has amassed some 270 major design awards since 2003, with 15 of these coming in 2017 alone. These numbers are an impressive testament to the professional calibre of the company’s in-house Design Studio, where designers imbue all products with the inimitable GROHE Design DNA. At the forefront of this new generation of top designer products are the multiple award-winning GROHE Blue Home, Sensia Arena and SmartControl. GROHE’s most recent accolade is the “Design Plus powered by ISH” badge, awarded by the German Design Council on the first day of the fair. The manufacturer received the coveted certificate – which testifies to a product’s future viability, innovative design and energy efficiency – for the Essence Professional kitchen faucet. Combining the ultimate in user comfort with excellent adaptability to different kitchen chores, this faucet is distinguished by a visually striking silicon hose, which is available as an option in a large variety of colours. The award-winning Essence Professional will be on show not only at the GROHE Booth but also at the special Design Plus exhibit put on by the organisers Just a few months into 2017, GROHE has continued to impress the judges at the renowned iF Design Award, which attracts more than 1,800 competition entries annually. This year’s entries came from 59 countries, highlighting the international stature of the iF Design label. GROHE garnered a total of five awards this year, namely for its Sensia Arena shower toilet, its Grohtherm
1000 New and Grohtherm 800 thermostats, its innovative GROHE SmartControl shower system,
as well as its GROHE Blue Home drinking water system, which supplies filtered and chilled water
in a choice of three degrees of carbonation straight from a kitchen faucet. GROHE Blue Home scored big at the Interior Innovation award 2017 organised by the German Design Council on the occasion of the IMM Cologne interior design show. The drinking water system made the prestigious “best of the best” list, which highlights the sector’s best recent innovations. Other GROHE products recognised by the judges include SmartControl, the Sensia Arena shower toilet and the AquaSymphony luxury shower, which combines its impressive size and innovative technologies with perfectly composed spray patterns. The judges for the 2017 Plus X award singled out the manufacturer’s Sensia Arena shower toiletfor its exceptional user benefits, lauding the sophisticated bathroom appliance for its sleek and modern design, its distinctly innovative functionalities as well as its high-quality build and finish.
Sensia Arena integrates a number of innovative technologies to deliver the very best in hygiene,
cleanliness and comfort. Its hands-free cleaning action is entirely based on water, thereby
contributing to users’ physical well-being. At the same time, maintenance requirements are
minimised by its unique surface and rinsing technologies. The beginning of this year has also seen GROHE pick up more Green Good Design awards, whichnmare bestowed jointly by the Chicago Athenaeum: Museum of Architecture and Design, and the European Centre for Architecture and Art Design. Apart from the design of the products, the judges for this award obviously place special emphasis on such aspects as energy efficiency, environmental friendliness and resource conservation. This year’s winners include four GROHE products: the Essence FootControl kitchen faucet, Blue Home, Sensia Arena and SmartControl, with its intuitive push-and-turn knob technology for easy control of a variety of shower outlets and spray patterns. Having made a highly successful start to the year, GROHE remains poised to garner more awards as the year progresses.