ConMin West Africa provides an unparalleled opportunity to boost a company’s brand in one of the most exciting business destinations in Africa. This event is dedicated to suppliers involved in the construction machinery, mining and building materials industry and offers a unique prospect to get an early foothold in the fast-developing West African market.Exhibiting allows companies to meet the most senior decision makers in the industry as well as showcasing their current products and solutions to clients face to face. 120 exhibitors are expected to welcome an audience of 2500 to the International Conference Centre in Abuja, Nigeria from 15th – 18th May 2018. ConMin West Africa aims to align itself with the needs of the market and those within it, which is why it has partnered very closely with The Ministry of Mines and Steel Development and Deloitte Consulting, to ensure it acts as the number one networking platform for the region. With a GDP of $ 518 billion Nigeria is the largest economy in Africa, after a slack phase the figures of importation rates and gross fixed capital formation are also rising again. The population is expected to grow by 50% until 2050. As a result,the demand for further infrastructure development will increase immensely: Projects for construction of highways, housing and hospitals are being encouraged. With a stable Government focused on developing industries outside of the oil sector, mining has been targeted as a priority for the country, which has been boosted by beneficial customs duties for mining and construction equipment. Running alongside the exhibition and business forums that make up ConMin West Africa is the National Mining Summit. The Summit was also launched in 2017to unite prominent figures from Africa’s mining and infrastructure sectors including investors, mining companies, geologists and other stakeholders from around the world to learn and network, all toward the single goal of advancing mining not just in Nigeria but across the West African region. The event provides the international stage required to bring all of these parties together, to focus attention and discussion on unearthing what the sector has to offer and this platform will be built upon in 2018. For more information visit www.conminwestafrica.com Contact: George Pearson Tel: +44 (0) 207 886 3008 Email: George.pearson@montex.co.uk