By Dennis AyembaAn inverter s job is straightforward. They change PV-generated or battery-stored DC electricity into AC electricity that can be used by household appliances or sent back to the utility grid.However, with numerous models and options, choosing the right inverter for your application has become a more challenging task. Inverters are specific to whether your system will be grid-tied or off-grid, and whether your system will include batteries, either for off-grid use or on-grid with battery backup.Choosing a Grid-Tied InverterAC Output Power: The inverter s AC output power should be matched to the PV array. A PV array s Standard Test Conditions (STC) power rating will provide a good idea of the minimum size of the needed inverter.For instance, a 5 kW PV array will require an inverter with about a 5 kW power output. If the climate interferes with the array preventing it from reaching STC power, it is possible to undersize the inverter by 10 to 20%. In that case, undersizing would need a 4 to 4.5 kW inverter for that 5 kW PV array.The inverter may require oversizing for arrays in higher elevated areas which are colder and sunnier; this is to avoid power clipping. In addition, a larger inverter can capture random moments of high PV output, such as those from cold, sunny days or from edge-of-cloud effect and possibly leave room for future expansionDC Voltage Input Window: This is the voltage range that the inverter will accept from the PV array. Local climate data and temperature coefficients will determine the maximum and minimum expected voltages. Exceeding the maximum voltage specification of an inverter may cause damage or fire in a worst scenario; and while it is not dangerous, too low array voltage can cause the inverter to stop processing power.Maximum Power Point Tracking (MPPT): All grid-tied inverters use some kind of MPPT, which enhances the PV array power output. Most inverters simply follow one MPP for the whole array as it keeps on changing all day, but some models can follow two series-string MPPs for a fairly better energy harvest for arrays with numerous orientations. AC modules, DC optimizers and microinverters, all offer the ability to track individual module MPPs.The AC output voltage of the inverter should match the building or service voltage where it is interconnected. In most cases inverters are field-configurable for different output voltages, but for a few, this must be specified up-front.An off-grid inverter must have enough AC output power to cover any AC loads that might run simultaneously. For instance, in case of 2,850 W of AC loads, then it is advisable to choose an inverter with 3,000 W of continuous output power. Any surge requirements common with compressors and motors, such as in refrigerators, or well pumps need to be checked against inverter surge or overload specsSince the inverter draws from a battery bank instead of the PV array; the DC voltage input needs to match the nominal battery bank voltage usually 12, 24, or 48 V. Inverter model numbers normally reflect both the AC power output and the DC battery voltage. For instance, the OutBack VFX 3648 can produce up to 3,600 AC watts progressively and works on a 48 VDC battery bank.Most quality stand-alone inverters produce a pure sine wave. The utility AC electricity is a relatively clean sine wave form, and higher-end inverters match or beat this quality. Modified square-wave inverters are usually cheaper, but the power quality is fairly poor.Many appliances actually run fine on a modified square wave, but some loads, including thermostats, clocks, fans, and power tool battery chargers, might not function properly. Sine wave inverters are mostly preferred, as they will run motors more efficiently, and consumer electronics with less electrical interference and noise.AC Output Voltage: Some off-grid inverters have a 120 VAC output, hence they need stacking two inverters to make 240 V, or require a 120/240 step-up transformer. Other inverters have single-phase 120/240 V AC output. Since most larger generators are also 120/240 V, they have to be connected to an inverter that accepts a 240 V AC input, or run through a transformer to step it down to 120 V. Utilizing only one 120 V leg of a 240 V generator can enhance generator run time. Some inverters can also run three-phase AC loads.A Grid-tied with Battery Backup (GTBB) inverter should be able to work both as a stand-alone inverter and grid-tied inverter to energize loads when the grid is down. Choosing is quite simple, since there are few models available.GTBB inverters must have a large enough AC power rating to pass through the full PV array output like a grid-tied inverter; and to power the backed-up AC loads subpanel like an off-grid inverter. In off-grid systems, the battery bank voltage must match the inverter; while in grid-tied systems, the AC output voltage must also match the utility voltage.Most features of GTBB inverters are similar to off-grid inverters. Some GTBB inverters can also be used as off-grid inverters. They simply need some programming differences to let the inverter know whether it needs to interconnect with the grid.&nbsp;