JCB Power Products marked two special anniversaries with a cake big enough to feed the whole workforce.It is 10 years since JCB Power Products produced and sold the first JCB generator to coincide with the launch of the JCB engine. It is also a year since the acquisition of major UK producer of diesel generators Broadcrown Ltd was completed.The milestones were celebrated at JCB Power Products plant in Hixon near Stafford by the employees who assembled on the shop floor to enjoy a slice from a giant cake baked in the shape of a generator.Mark Turner, Group Managing Director Business Operations, said: This has been an exciting 12 months. When I look around the world where we now have generator businesses, it s evident that JCB Power Products will be a big part of our future. JCB Power Products MD Jonathan Garnham said: It is 10 years since JCB went into power generation to coincide with the launch of the four cylinder diesel engine. We grew the business quickly and with the opportunity for us to come together a year ago with Broadcrown, we have really started to go from strength to strength now. JCB Power Products was established in 2006 following the launch of the innovative JCB DieselMax. The company offers an extensive range of high specification generators to meet customer requirements for any power application globally; into residential, rental, construction, quarrying and mining, agricultural sectors and for use as back-up power supply for commercial applications such as hospitals, offices and datacentres. In 201 5, global equipment manufacturer JCB acquired generator manufacturer Broadcrown which was established in 1976 &#8211; to strengthen and extend its own range of generators and power supply equipment. Following the acquisition of the business and assets of Broadcrown, JCB Power Products began to integrate generator ranges to help increase JCB s penetration of the generator market, its global manufacturing footprint and its specialist power generation dealer network. Just six months after the acquisition, plans are accelerating at a rapid pace to take advantage of the increasing power market. JCB Broadcrown is located in Hixon, Staffordshire. Specialising in diesel generators and power generation systems from 6kVA to 3MVA, JCB Broadcrown has more than 40 years of expertise, delivering innovative power solutions, from the smallest stand-by generator to the largest turnkey project.