By Dennis Ayemba3D Laser Scanning technology can be used in a wide range of High Definition Surveying (HDS) applications either alongside traditional survey instruments or as an alternative to total stations.A surveyor can quickly gather a huge amount of accurate co-ordinated three dimensional 3D laser points from the surface of remote feature as a point cloud image, when using 3D Laser Scanning instruments; providing quick surveying solutions for complex geometrical detail and inaccessible elements.After the 3D Scanner has scanned a structure or site to form a definite high definition survey image, it is then processed with visualization and modeling software to represent the surface surveyed. The data gathered from the scanned image can then be utilized for a wide variety of applications like exporting to CAD in 2D or 3D models in wire frame or to other rendering software packages.This kind of surveying technology makes it possible for the surveyor to capture and utilize huge volumes of 3D data in a span of environments and is quite suitable for measuring heritage sites, historic buildings and facades along with applications in detailed petrochemical and industrial environments. 3D Laser Scanners are also well suited for surveying projects like highways, tunneling projects or hazardous sites where traditional survey instruments may not be well suited.Added Confidence in SurveyingA major potential advantage of a laser scan survey is that it can present more confidence in the survey results than those obtained from traditional survey equipment. This increased confidence comes from several sources which include: A higher density topographic survey is basically a more complete topographic survey. Some details that may be overlooked can be otherwise captured.Extra data can be deemed as over-sampling or added redundancy, similar to taking extra shots, double and triple-checking data and so on. High point density normally removes guesstimates or the need to make assumptions on the geometry and relative spatial positioning of structures or objects. All captured measurements are specific measurements of the surface in question. No offsets or poles are used, so the worry about poles not being vertical or offset estimates being incorrect are removed.3D visualization and Imagery ingrained in laser scan surveys can also present added confidence that the mapping results correspond to what was really there at the site. The potential for laser scanning to impart added confidence in a topographic survey s results reverberates to the very core of the survey and engineering professions. One of the key reasons why surveyors are contracted over non-surveyors is that clients need results they can trust from an expert. This is also why a client may often choose one survey or engineering company over another or goes for one sub-consultant exclusively; the client trusts their work more.The high density feature of laser scanning is its most basic, driving technical differentiators compared to other methods of survey. Moreover, a laser scan survey also features ultra-fast data capture, 3D visualization, remote measurement, and informative imagery in addition to its high density feature. Collectively, a laser scan survey could be called an ultra-fast, high-definition, reflector-less topographic survey. This distinctive combination of features provides several main potential advantages over other methods of survey for detail, engineering, and as-built surveys; including the core potential advantage for the surveyor and engineer to enjoy more confidence in the survey results.On the authority of Dave Beattie of Autobuild Africa, the impact of using 3D laser scanning for topographic surveys in mapping and planning is immense. Laser scanners typically measure 10 000 or more points per second, as opposed to 1 or 2 points per minute which conventional survey instruments do. So Laser scans cover every centimeter of the ground, building, mine; giving much more detail and enabling much more accurate volumes to be calculated, he said. So we are talking about speed as well as accuracy improvements, plus providing much more detailed results, he added.Autobuild Africa Limited is one of the leading distributors of levels, theodolites and surveying accessories. They distribute the equipment from South Africa to other African countries. We carry forward our support to the surveying community with highly trained technicians that are able to repair, calibrate all makes of surveying instruments, said Mr. Beattie. Conventional surveying instruments are still essential for setting out of construction projects, but for data collection jobs, there is simply no comparison to 3D laser scanning, affirmed Mr. Beattie. Technology, especially software is developing at a rapid rate, so it is important for the consumer to shop around before buying any survey equipment. With the economy being relatively stagnant, companies are reluctant to spend on big ticket items. On the other hand companies need to remain competitive, which ultimately means they will have to invest in the latest technology, so we are optimistic for the future, he said.