With over 16 000 employees and annual production of more than 16 million pump units a year, Grundfos is one of the world&#8217;s leading pump manufacturers.Olukayode Olayemi Grundfos Country Manager,Nigeria says no matter for which purpose an efficient and energy saving pump solution is required, Grundfos offers a high-quality solution. In Africa, their product ranges between the pumps from the building services to Water utilities and the industry.They have a mix of the submersible borehole pumps which we are known for to the vertical multistage, water boosters pumps, waste water pumps, fire pumps for all specifications including the EN 12845 and the NFPA 20 Ul/FM approved, the solar powered surface and borehole pumps and the newly introduced water ATM otherwise known as the Grundfos Aqtap.He also added that Two words separate Grundfos from the pack. That is sustainable intelligence. They continue coming up with products that are sustainable and in recent times they have made their products more intelligent by Increasing the interaction and capabilities of the pump and the operator or the end user.As an industry pioneer, Grundfos recently introduced one of the world s most efficient motors, the new MGE with IE5 motors, which offers 10% energy savings and up to 25% reduction in payback time of controlled E-pumps compared to IE3 solution.Delivering an unprecedented level of performance, this ground breaking motor by far exceeds the coming IE3 legislative demands to meet the strictest criteria of IE5 the highest energy efficiency level for electrical motors.All Grundfos MGE motors from 0.75 kW to 11 kW have attained IE5 status. The key to these MGE motors unparalleled performance lies in their state-of-the-art intelligent components. These will adapt to the surrounding system and, coupled with the high-efficiency IE5 motor, drive your energy consumption down considerably.The IE5 motor with integrated frequency converter connects the accumulated pump experience of Grundfos into the dedicated control software. This combination of pump and customizable software optimizes your system s performance for any load point, delivering an unsurpassed reduction of energy consumption.It depends on the application. The major problem that the purchasers have is that they are ill equipped with the right information to seek. The purchaser should know that the pump is not a one size fit all product.For example for a submersible pump, you need to ask the driller the yield of the well, the depth, the static and dynamic head and the intended design. Or simply get the required pumps flow and the head.Olayemi adds that only 290 out of 915 million people in sub-Saharan Africa have access to electricity. That is 625 million people without electricity. Take a moment to look at these astounding statistics:950 million people are expected to gain access to electricity by 2040. Nonetheless, more than half a billion people will remain without electricity, mainly in rural areas. Hence the need for alternate sources of energy.Moreso, the futile nature of fossil fuel energy as well as the increasing problem of greenhouse emission, which is believed to significantly contribute to global warning, more than ever before reinforces the need for the adoption of solar energy as an alternative power source. Grundfos has filled this gap and produced a solar powered pump known as the The SQFlex system.It is a reliable water supply system based on solar panels. The SQFlex system incorporates an SQF submersible pump. Very flexible as to its energy supply and performance, The SQFlex system can be combined and adapted to any need.Having experience for the African market he the compnay representative says that Counterfeiting, proliferation of substandard pumps in to the market. Poorly trained plumbers and installers are some of the challenges facing the African water pumps market.He also concluded that Grundfos Lifelink water solutions combine their innovative and reliable technology with professional service networks to support operations on the ground. They believe that partnerships across sectors and business model thinking are also needed to provide sustainable and scalable solutions.Grundfos addresses the missing link to sustainability in water supply through innovative Grundfos Lifelink solutions that take a holistic and long-term approach.Contacts GRUNDFOS (PTY) LTD Olukayode OlayemiCountry Manager,NigeriaMobile : +2348035621265E-mail: oolayemi@grundfos.comwww.grundfos.com