GE Transport and Transnet, South African-based freight logistics chain have gotten into a partnership to digitise African transport.The move will enable a flawless link of shippers and transport operators in streamlining pricing and capacity on the network, shipment planning, fuel costs savings and distribute goods to the market more efficiently.GE Global Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt said: The digital joint venture we re getting in with Transnet will not only advance Africa s transport sector, but release huge opportunities for the supply chain stimulating Africa s economy. Siyabonga Gama, Transnet s Group Chief Executive said: Disruptive innovation has become the new catchphrase for good reason. Innovation generates new markets and basically changes the way we live and work. The joint venture with GE Transport is enabling us to form a new industry and build up new skills that have the possibility to change the world as we know it. As a worldwide digital industrial leader and dealer of equipment, services and solutions to the rail, mining, marine, power and drilling industries, GE Transport will help Transnet to deliver goods and services with better speed and efficiency through the provision of necessary data required through Predix GE s cloud-based operating system for the Industrial Internet of Things.The timing of this scheme falls in line with the vigorous growth taking place across Africa. Since 1995, Africa s trade has almost doubled, placing huge logistical pressure on present transport infrastructure.As it stands, managing the diverse transport routes and developing new infrastructure is difficult. GE s innovative solution will bring simplicity to payment processes, goods management, customs inspections and lessen the trouble of a paper-based environment.GE is encouraging development across the sectors of aviation, healthcare, transport and power as sectors that are increasingly being occupied by software companies, technology companies and industrial companies. This joint venture is GE s chance to take the new technology that we will develop in South Africa and launch it to the rest of Africa, said Immelt.Digitalization in Africa is necessary to driving growth on the continent. It plays a major role in motivating inter-Africa trade. This isn t the first time GE and Transnet have partnered.The two bodies have partnered since 2009 to produce and distribute more than 230 Evolution Series diesel electric locomotives, such as the most African locomotive, which attributed 55% locally produced content.The move by GE to digitise African transport comes at a time when experts says transport in Africa is disorganized and poorly managed.