Belgotex Floors recently revealed its Design Centre in Century City, Cape Town, providing a creative space for the public and industry professionals.Along with showcasing the brand s flooring solutions and application possibilities, the Belgotex Design Centre also provides a working space for professionals to meet with clients as part of the design development and specification journey.Additionally, Belgotex are developing a programme of trend talks and events for the public and industry in the space. We have always prided ourselves in leading by design and being the first to introduce the latest flooring technology to South Africa, says Edward Colle, executive director of Belgotex Floors. The Design Centre is an example of this innovative, design-first thinking and is an exceptional, pioneering space in the South African flooring market. Unlike many traditional showrooms, the environment is welcoming and easy to navigate, allowing our customers to rethink the way that they see and choose flooring. Designed by ITI, a Durban-based brand development and creative agency, the Belgotex Design Centre is just over 300m2 and includes a contemporary showroom area and elevated textile concept gallery, a coffee bar, boardroom and mezzanine office space for Belgotex s Cape Town-based professional team.Architects, interior designers and other creative professionals are encouraged to either explore the space alone or meet with their clients at the centre where they can choose the informal coffee bar or the boardroom, which they can book for more formal meetings.Putting flooring first The idea behind the new showroom was to put flooring first. It s such an integral aspect of any space and it is often overlooked until the end of the design process, adds Colle. Flooring has such a huge impact on the aesthetic and sensory impression of a space, that starting with it first is a more human, tactile approach. The space is inspired by life lived close to the ground as in Japanese culture. This informs a design concept characterised by horizontal planes and facets, where the flooring is elevated and honoured for its integrity.The showroom has been conceived of as somewhere more like a public space, where you can pause and spend time being inspired, rather than just transacting. Because of this, the Belgotex products are displayed in such a way that they can be appreciated and can spark creativity from the gallery approach to textile concepts to the bespoke plinth displays showcasing the different ranges.The Belgotex Design Centre, found in the Matrix at Century City, adjacent to the Century City Conference Centre and hotel, is open from Monday to Friday, 8am to 5pm.