A.b.e. Construction Chemicals new VIP quickfloor system that can cure in less than an hour to enable flooring contractors to provide incredibly rapid flooring has been applied as waterproofing protection at the Discovery Holdings headquarters in Sandton.A.b.e., part of the Chryso Southern Africa Group, is the sole South African distributor for Voelkel Industrie Produkte (VIP) in Germany, leading European suppliers of coatings, industrial adhesives, and joint sealants.Noel Abendroth, A.b.e. s National Sales Manager: VIP High Performance Coating Solutions, says quickfloor 500 was applied as waterproofing for the six air-conditioning plant rooms on the rooftop of the high-rise Discovery building at 155 West Street. The applicators were A.b.e.-approved BKV Holdings, after Paragon Architects had specified the VIP system as protection for the air-conditioning plant.AdvertisementAbendroth said the quickfloor system is based on polyaspartic technology, derived from Polyurea principles. The VIP quickfloor system primarily consists of VIP quickfloor 500, an exceptionally quick-acting, roller-applied aliphatic top coat which provides excellent adhesion to concrete substrates which was selected as wear surface at Discovery Holdings; and VIP quickfloor 100, an eco-friendly industrial grade, high-build base coat which is both solvent- and VOC-free. The elastomeric quickfloor 500 top coat cures in an astounding 30 to 60 minutes to a very clear finish and is also environmentally friendly with low viscosity and odour. The seamless, flexible coating provides superior chemical resistance compared with solvent-driven epoxies and urethanes.The coating was recently specified to seal the Cape Town Aquarium s new Predator Tank, Abendroth added.Prior to the application of VIP quickfloor 500, VIP quickprime 2K Epoxy SF 21 was applied as moisture barrier. The epoxy product is a two-component modified epoxy resin specifically designed for sealing and priming concrete substrates. Its unique formulation allows for full curing of concrete substrates with relatively high residual moisture content. In cured state, quickprime 2K Epoxy SF 21 functions as barrier against residual moisture and water vapour. It is low in viscosity, making it easy to apply evenly and quickly and allows for deep penetration of the primer into the concrete substrate. This deep penetration not only improves adhesion but helps to seal the concrete, minimising outgassing and blistering problems. Although specifically designed for concrete substrates, Quick Prime 2K Epoxy SF21 also displays excellent adhesion to correctly prepared steel substrates, Abendroth added.He said the quickfloor system which can be squeegee, or brush/roller-applied &#8211; is ideal for new floors or flooring renovation at aircraft hangars, warehouses, restaurants and kitchens, shopping malls, hospitals, and car park decks. It is available in a wide range of colours but can be supplied in custom-made colours, and with quartz and chips added for decorative effect, Abendroth added.