Vermeer has extended its whole tree chipper product line with the introduction of the WC2500TX tracked whole tree chipper. The WC2500TX offers the same performance and compact design as the recently released WC2500XL whole tree chipper by Vermeer, but is equipped with a tracked undercarriage to aid in maneuverability in the woods and on tough landclearing sites.VersatilityThe WC2500TX boasts a compact design and packs a 600 hp (448 kW) Tier 4 Final engine to meet jobsite production demands. There is also a Tier 3 engine option for countries that have not adopted Tier 4 emission regulations.The new chipper can be equipped with either the microchip drum that produces chip sizes between 1/8&#8243; (3.2 mm) to 5/8&#8243; (15.9 mm), or the macrochip drum that produces chip sizes between 5/8&#8243; (15.9 mm) and 1 1/4&#8243; (31.8 mm). The knife setup is quick and simple with knife position being set by two bolts no babbitting needed, which makes changeout on jobsites easy.Areas of high-wear material flow on the machine such as the drum, discharge chute, cutter housing and infeed conveyor floor are designed with replaceable, bolt-in wear parts to help extend the life of the machine. The release of the WC2500TX continues to solidify our presence in the biomass and landclearing markets, says Matt Hutchinson, Vermeer product manager. The versatility of the tracked undercarriage, now gives us all-terrain capability, with great traction and flotation in various ground conditions. The 600 hp Tier 4 Final chipper can rapidly fill a trailer with properly sized chips, or efficiently broadcast material out over a remote landclearing site, depending on how you configure the drum. AccessibilityThe 20&#8243; (50.8 cm) high-mount tracked undercarriage makes this a fully mobile unit, allowing operators to efficiently and effectively move the machine around jobsites without the need for additional support equipment. The D4 undercarriage is designed for tough jobsite conditions with high-mounting structures for nearly 29&#8243; (73.7 cm) of belly clearance and rising chain rollers for material cleanout. The tracks can be single or double grouser depending on the terrain of your operation.A remote control provides certain real-time machine performance data to aid the operator in maximizing productivity through monitoring and adjusting the chipper&#8217;s settings. The operator can engage and disengage the clutch as well as control the trip meter, EcoIdleTM engine control system, the chute, tracks and work light functions from the remote.Exclusive TechnologyLike other whole tree chippers in the Vermeer lineup, the WC2500TX whole tree chipper is equipped with proven technologies including SmartCrush, SmartFeed and EcoIdle system.With SmartCrush technology, the machine can automatically increase down pressure when difficult material enters the cutting drum and adjusts variable-speed dual-infeed conveyor chains. This allows operators to concentrate on loading the machine, and not pushing the materials through.SmartFeed helps increase productivity and reduces the strain on vital engine parts. The patented feedsensing control system monitors engine rpm and automatically stops or reverses the feed roller and infeed conveyor when feeding larger, hardwood materials. SmartFeed also senses feed roller jams and responds by automatically shifting material back and forth.The operator can select the EcoIdle engine control system function, which automatically lowers engine speed to 1400 rpm if no material has been chipped for 30 seconds. Engine speed automatically increases if the feed roller climbs onto new material or the engine detects a change in loading.Please visit www.vermeer.com to learn more about Vermeer equipment or contact your local Vermeer dealer for an equipment demo.&nbsp;