Networking is all about making new connections and building longstanding interactions. In the profitable construction industry being able to efficiently network is a fundamental skill that as a person could land you your next job or put your company on the pathway to your next big project. While networking is something that you should always be doing it doesn t have to be a intimidating job. It s as easy as meeting new people and forming an initial connection with that person that can be fostered into a relationship. Take advantage of your trade associations (and trade shows) One of the peak profits of membership to a state, regional or local trade association is the capability to network with like-minded folks in your field. Most trade associations host a number of conferences, meeting, events and seminars throughout the year in order for you to make new associations. You also might want to think about joining your local chamber of commerce as it will put you in touch with business leaders in your community that can lead to even more opportunities to network. Don t burn bridges. This may seem a bit clich but you never know who you might be working for or within the future. You should keep in touch with and uphold good relationships with previous employers, coworkers and subcontractors that you ve worked with in the past because odds are you will come across these same people in your future comings and goings. In an industry like commercial construction, everyone knows everyone else and word will travel fast if you ve left a bad impression on someone. Business cards are your friend. Exchanging business cards is a great way to have all the relevant contact information for that new connection you just met Take the time to review the information and make some comment about it. Be certain that when you hand out your business card that it is up to date with all of your recent contact information. It would be a true shame if someone tried contacting you about a new opportunity only to find out that the phone number you offered on your business card was no longer in service or that your email address wasn t spelled properly. Network at the job site. If you re spending weeks or even months at the same job site you should take the time to get to know the people working around you. Depending on the size and range of the commercial construction project there will be several number of specialty and trade contractors at the job site all through construction. Take the time to walk around and meet some of the other people working with you. It s a rapid and easy way to expand your network.Also read :https://constructionreviewonline.com/2017/04/10-tips-negotiate-construction-contract/ Go online. Social networking sites like LinkedIn are a great way to reconnect with old connections that you may have lost touch with over the years. There are also thousands of groups dedicated to nearly every aspect of the construction industry where you can join in or begin your own discussions. One of the best features of LinkedIn is the ability find new people you d like to network with and having a mutual connection introduce you to that person. Online networking should not replace face-to-face networking, but it is a helpful tool that shouldn t be disregarded. Focus on helping others and facilitating connections. Once you ve made a new association you need to cultivate and build your relationship with that person. Your key goal should be finding ways to assist your new contact instead of focusing on how they can help you. Your new contact might not need your particular services at the time but if you can put them in touch with someone who can assist them then they will consider you the next time they do or will give in return by introducing you to someone who does. Networking opportunities can happen anywhere. Networking boils down to having a evocative conversation with the right person. This can happen at the gym, watching your kid s soccer game or standing in line at the grocery store.Don t limit your networking to the office or the jobsite, a potential chance might be closer than you think.