A mini excavator is ideal pieces of equipment you could opt for some digging or leveling on your property. These machines may be small, but they are designed to undertake intensive maintenance project, thus making them a good option for renovating, remodeling and landscaping on your property. However, buying your own excavator may not be an economical choice. Since they tend to be quite expensive, there would not be much return on your investment if you were not planning to use your mini excavator on a regular basis. Your best bet would be to opt for mini excavator hire. Before selecting your excavator of choice though, you should inspect it to ensure that it is in good working condition. Here are some inspection tips when contemplating mini excavator hire.Inspect the mini excavator&#8217;s bodyThe first place to begin your inspection would be the excavator&#8217;s body. Since this type of equipment is exposed to rough conditions, it is not unusual for it to acquire damage to its body over time. An inspection enables you to establish whether the wear and tear is superficial, or if it will have an impact on your operations. Generally, minor dents and scratches on the body will not affect the running of the equipment. However, large cracks that have developed on the body could significantly affect the structural integrity of the mini excavator.Inspect the mini excavator&#8217;s connections Another important aspect to consider when choosing between mini excavators for hire would be the connection points on the different options available to you. These connection points are essential for the ease of use as well as the efficiency of the equipment. When inspecting them, check to see if the connections are sturdy and secure or if they are loose. Any pins that have been installed on the movable parts of the excavators should not only be clean, but should be sufficiently lubricated too. Steer clear from mini excavators that have loose connections ass this would impede on the proper placement of the various attachments that you may want to use in tandem with the equipment.Inspect the mini excavator&#8217;s hydraulic systemThe hydraulic system essentially controls the movement of the various parts that make up the mini excavator. This is done through a fluid that needs to be maintained at a specific pressure to ensure that power is being transferred efficiently to the different parts. To inspect the hydraulic system, examine the mini excavator&#8217;s hydraulic pump for any signs of leakage. You should also inspect its hoses as well as the hydraulic cylinder for leakage.&nbsp;