Weather conditions are known to affect aerial work platform lifting activities. Consequently, there is need for consideration for the same both during the planning and execution of a Boom lift or Scissor Lift. Moreover, special efforts may be required to ensure adequate warning is provided to avoid a sudden storm disrupting a lift in progress.WINDShrewdness is a skill required when assessing the level of the wind and the suitability of lifting operations with regards to the same. Different manufacturers have some set specifications in terms of the maximum permissible wind speed/gust as well as how to reduce the crane power under windy conditions to avoid damages. In cases of lack of information on either the load chart or in the operating manual instructions, the crane manufacturer should be consulted. Additionally, maximum allowable wind speed/gust and derating information posted conspicuously in the cab or right on the load chart.Notably, in the absence of manufacturers specific written advice, one should put into consideration postponing the lift should the wind speed/gust between the range of 15-20 mph (7-9 m/s). Wind speeds above 20 mph (11 m/s), call for a cancellation of the lift altogether. In such cases loads must be landed and secured, the boom stowed. The following must also be met prior to resuming operations:Elimination of immediate threat should be done to ensure there s enough time to secure all loads and stow the crane, 30-45 minutes), of wind speeds reaching the 20 mph reading. These wind speeds will be recorded at 30 ft. above open ground or by the 10 meter height of the BNL tower.When faced with windy weather conditions, it would be best to take not of the following:Also Read: Keeping your elevators and escalators in top gearWind from behind a crane.Wind blowing from the rear of the crane increases the radius and decreases the crane capacity, and as a result causes the load to be blown away from the crane.Wind from the side of a crane.Wind blowing from the side can put a load on the side of the boom and blow the load off vertical; which, in turn, places an additional side load on the boom. In the United States, most booms are designed for a 20 mph (9 m/s) wind velocity on the side of the boom, plus a side load equal to 2% of the rated load.Operating a crane between structuresThe wind tunnel effect, where air blows around obstructions, can cause local areas of increased velocity that may exceed the safe lifting limit. This is notwithstanding the general wind speed, under which conditions an anemometer should be fixed to the boom point.COLD WEATHERCold weather can have a negative impact on cranes and aerial work platform operations. When temperatures drop below 10F, consultation with the Plant Engineering Division s Crane/Hoisting &amp; Rigging Inspector and/or Plant Engineering Division s Rigging Supervisors is highly recommended.Cold weather lifting restrictions start from below -15oC to -30oC, where all operations involving hydraulic cranes are to be conducted with regard to potential failure of hydraulic components. For critical lifts, cranes should be powered down by at least 25%.For temperatures below-30oC) to -40oC cranes should be powered down by 40% for all lifts, and halting of all lifting activities should be considered. Lastly, for temperatures below-40oC all lifting is prohibited except for extreme emergencies.