Advantages &amp; Disadvantages of Single vs. Double Basin Kitchen SinksA well-designed kitchen will allow you to cook and prepare food without hindering you. You shouldn t have to give moving about and working in the kitchen a second thought. A well-designed kitchen will allow you to move effortlessly throughout the space.A well-functioning kitchen is a product of making lots of small choices that combine to be much greater than the sum of their parts. Sink options are often not given enough consideration in the design of the kitchen.Advantages of a double basin sinkIf you don t have a dishwasher, you should give more thought to a double basin sink that has two basins that are about the same size. They are designed for multi-tasking, allowing you to fill up one side of the sink with hot water to wash dishes so that you can rinse them in the other.Every basin is smaller than you would get with a single basin sink but you ll be grateful for the handiness of being able to carry out two tasks at the same time.You ll also see double basins that have two different size basins. The slightly smaller side is a prep sink for getting food ready for cooking and the larger side is for loading up dishes, filling pots, washing large pans, etc. If you have a dishwasher, but don t have room for a prep sink, which typically positioned on an island, get a double basin with a large and a small basin.Remember, that with a double basin you have to add the plumbing for two drains, adding to the cost of the installation.Advantages of a single basin sinkSingle basin sinks have an in general footprint that is typically smaller a double basin, but you ll have a lot more room to work with.The extra room comes in handy, and there will definitely be a time that you ll appreciate it. If you have a dishwasher and don t consider the need for a prep sink then I would decide on a single basin with a removable wire basket that can be used for rinsing fruit and vegetables.If you have an island and the room in your budget, then I would put the prep sink in the island, directly across from the main sink. Getting your prep region just out of the way, but within reach of the household tasks you carry out in your regular sink will make your kitchen work much better.Stores like Home Depot and Lowe s offer free sinks with a countertop purchase. They usually give you three or four free options, or they let you choose to apply the value of the free sink to any sink you want. Most people choose a free sink, but those sinks are free for a reason. They re usually low quality and should be avoided. Step it up a bit and get a sink that is going to make your life easier in the kitchen.