 We all know that Necessity is the mother of Invention. Changing requirements, parameters, time constraints, the size of works, specifications, quality requirements makes the mankind to go for innovations and develop new materials, equipment and technologies.Construction materials, equipment and building techniques have become more energy efficient, need based, economical, environment-friendly, user-friendly and aesthetically better.The material and equipment, we choose to construct our buildings should enhance safety, minimize pollution, be friendly to the natural environment and in general create a healthy atmosphere. The buildings should have a good waste management system, water conservation and use less of artificial energy.Innovation in Construction MaterialsConstruction materials constitute about 40% of the Project Cost in Construction Projects. Therefore it becomes necessary that the materials are used more efficiently. Even the selection of proper material is as important as efficient use of the same. Innovation in respect of the materials should be done considering the requirements and suitability in the Project.Examples of Innovations in Building Materials: Acceptance of Building MaterialsMaterials used in the construction should be such that these are accepted by the construction industry and the end user.Economy of Materials The economy is an essential requirement of any activity. The new materials which are economical in use will be accepted more. Efforts should be made to ensure that the new product does not put additional financial burden on the construction.Sustainability of Building MaterialsOne of the major requirements of the innovative materials should be its sustainability. One of the factors affecting this criterion is non-availability for a long period of time.Using Local Resources It is always advisable to develop new materials which are locally available. The advantage will be saving on the transport cost and easy availability.Future Modification PotentialThe innovative material should have the potential for further modification, suiting to the requirements at that point in time. The new material should have the quality of changing as per the need of the hour.Utilization of waste and by-Products Efforts should be made to develop and use materials which have been formed with waste products or by-products. The use of by-products will result in saving cost and space for their disposal.Environment Friendly The new material should not have the adverse effect on the Environment. Excessive use of Plastics or Polymers may have an adverse effect on the human health.Innovations Tips for Construction Equipments and MachineryEquipment produce output at an accelerated speed and enables performance of tasks in shorter time. The tasks which are not possible to be done with manpower only can be done with the help of suitable plants and equipment. Equipment improve productivity, quality and safety.&nbsp;&nbsp;