The kitchen sink, is a routine feature of our daily lives that we take for granted. This is until of course the water dries up or turns smelly, inconveniencing our schedules or threatening our health. It is also put into consideration when considering a house purchase or renovation. The tap turns on, the water obligingly pours out; the tap turns off, the water obligingly drains away. But it was not always so. The advancement of kitchen sinks from dishpans filled with buckets of water to today&#8217;s modern kitchen sink with carefully controlled municipal system with its in/out pipes, hot water tanks, and on/off taps; reflects developments in plumbing technology, society s evolving concerns about civic and moral health, and major alterations in expectations around kitchen activities.Kitchen sinks are exposed to a lot of mucky activities and must endure the wear and tear of water, harsh chemicals and germs on a daily basis. However, a sink has a role to play as the kitchen s fashion element. It has not only to function as a culinary pit stop but at the same time make the kitchen look good at the same time.Also Read:Having a Modern KitchenSizing it upBefore choosing a modern kitchen sink, consider its uses and compare the proportion of the size to that of your kitchen. Kitchens over 200 square feet in space with sinks used for light washing and a garbage disposal should consider the popular double bowl, which allows the sink to handle multiple jobs at once. Large basins, which are on trend right now, and triple bowls, can be used for those who frequently cook or wash dishes in the sink, but their size might overpower a smaller kitchen for instance, one that is less than 150 square feet. In a kitchen this size, smaller single bowls will not only function well, but will also fit the room best.When in a showroom, it is advisable to stand next to the sink at a counter and picture yourself scrubbing pots or peeling carrots. This will enable you to know if the sink is too deep to an extent of banging your elbows while you work, or too narrow that it chips your platters during washing.Consequently, the material the modern kitchen sink is made of has a big impact on not only how it functions, but its aesthetics and cost effectiveness as well. Moreover, as sinks are a notable design element in your kitchen; choose one that complements the other fixtures and decor of the space.Selecting a sink materialStainless Steel: As the most popular material for a modern kitchen sink, this material offers a good balance of cost, durability and ease of cleaning as well as availability in a variety of types, styles and sizes. Stainless-steel sinks are very budget friendly, but can easily scratch and show water marks.Alternatively, a brushed satin finish will ensure that the water marks and scratches are less noticeable compared to the mirror finish. Lastly, sound-absorbing pads fitted at the bottom will help minimize the noise.Composite Granite: These are the go-to sink for interior designers because of their attractive look and reliability. Unlike stainless steel, these sinks don t show water marks or scratches. They come in a variety of neutral colors, but the darker hues best disguise grit and grime. Although durable, they can crack if mishandled, especially during shipping and handling.Fireclay: This is the best choice for those looking to make over their kitchen in solid whites and neutrals. These are manufactured at extremely high temperatures and are resistant to scratches, staining and chipping. Clean up is simple; dish soap on a sponge; but for tougher marks, a mild abrasive cleanser and some elbow grease will get that sink back to white.Natural Stone: This is best experienced when the countertops are matching the sink. This integral style makes the flow from the countertops seamless to the sink. However, some stones, like marble, are susceptible to stains, making it advisable to test a sample of the stone first and watch how it stands up to constant water splashes and colored liquids.