Ghana Consulting Engineers Association (GCEA) was incorporated on 21st February 1973, GCEA is charged with promoting and implementing the consulting engineering industries in Ghana on behalf of its Member firms and to disseminate information and resources of interest to its members.Becoming A MemberMembership of the Association shall be open to firms and individuals primarily engaged in engineering consultancy and related activities whose head office or branch office is in Ghana and who subscribe to the objects of the Association.There shall be the following categories of members; a. FULL Members b. ASSOCIATE MembersFULL MEMBERSHIP Any firm who desires to be admitted into full membership of the association shall meet the following terms: a. A majority of its directors or partners shall be individual consulting engineers who have met the requirements of the GhIE and the Engineering Council of Ghana to practice engineering in Ghana. b. At least one of its directors or partners shall have individual experience of not less than eight (8) years in the practice of engineering after obtaining his first degree and shall have been registered by GhIE. c. The firm shall have obtained GhIE approval and met other statutory requirements to practice consulting engineering in Ghana d. The firm shall have been in practice for at least three (3) years. e. Provide and demonstrate that it has adequate competence and capability to practice consulting engineering in Ghana through; i. Properly established, equipped and functional office ii. Recruitment and retention of competent engineering and support staff iii. Functional organisational structure and quality procedure An individual for full membership of the Association shall meet the following terms: a. Be in practice as an Engineer for not less than eight (8) years. And shall be registered as a Consulting Engineer by the GhIE and the Engineering Council of Ghana. a. Shall have attained an eminent position in engineering before taking up consulting practice through: 1. Being employed as a senior officer with a governmental or reputable private organization in a capacity dealing with consulting engineering matters 2. 3. Being employed in a position of responsibility for not less than five (5) years in a reputable consulting engineering firm engaged mainly with consulting engineering work.ASSOCIATE MEMBERSHIP A foreign consulting engineering firm operating in Ghana may apply for membership. It shall have an established office and is a member on the register of the GhIE and the Engineering Council of Ghana.