Permanent modular or off-site construction is gaining an increased consideration in the construction industry today. More architects, general contractors and owners are starting to realize the benefits of building in an off-site controlled environment. As well as starting to better understand how this alternative delivery process works.Advanced planning and collaboration with key players is necessary to complete a successful modular project. Attempting to change a conventionally designed building over to a modular project too late could be challenging, making it important to start planning for modular in advance. The design team on the project should include a qualified modular contractor who can guide the design process and optimize the use of modularization from the very beginning. Our modules units have the ability to meet any design and creativity requirements but there are certain fundamental designs pieces that need be considered at the start.During the pre-construction phase module layout will be discussed. Breaking down a floor plan into workable module requires planning and design work. Typically this is figured out through the most cost effective and logical methodology for construction. We strive to help create the desired floor plan for the owner while allowing for other influences such as foundations, transportation, site access, and mechanical/electrical systems. This is usually completed with the module builder and input from stakeholders and designers. Once this is completed a project schedule is created to establish a time frame for final design and approvals. In conventional construction the length of the project schedule can allow for changes and updates to be made during the construction process, where modular construction these questions/answers are all decided on up front. Once the modular project hits the manufacturing plant any changes can affect the assembly of modules and the project schedule. Completing design intent and code requirements are handled in the pre-construction phase to maintain project efficiencies.&nbsp;