Ditch Witch, a Charles Machine Works Company, has introduced the new Rock Monster HD back reamers to help today&#8217;s horizontal directional drilling (HDD) operators improve drilling performance in hard rock conditions.The new back reamers are equipped with patent-pending EdgeGuard protection to increase the life of the reamer, reduce replacement costs and keep crews profitable. This design incorporates strategic placement of tungsten carbide discs on critical areas of the bit shirttail, giving operators a significant advantage over hard facing and tungsten carbide inserts. Other innovations, including patent-pending High Energy Tumbling (HET) inserts, improve cutting structure life through increased fracture toughness and wear resistance. This helps extend the usable life of the back reamers, while also increasing production rates and performance. Operators continue to drill in ever-challenging terrain, making the durability of their downhole tools a critical component to a successful job, said Jeff Davis, Ditch Witch product manager for HDD tooling and drill pipe. Incorporating new, exclusive design features, our Rock Monster HD back reamers offer superior durability and longevity, keeping underground construction crews productive and profitable even in the toughest landscapes. The back reamers include a full-coverage cutting structure to maximize weight on the bit, providing better performance in rock. Designed with interchangeable nozzles in multiple sizes, operators can easily customize fluid-flow specifications to specific drilling conditions. The Rock Monster HD back reamers are also armed with a premium sealed journal bearing, further improving the tooling longevity.Designed with standard API thread connections, the new back reamers utilize high fluid-flow capabilities to meet market standards for easy integration with other HDD models on the market. The back reamers are compatible in rock applications with current Ditch Witch HDD rigs and are available in five different sizes. To best meet each contractor&#8217;s individual drilling needs, local Ditch Witch dealerships can provide optimal HDD compatibility:10 in x 4 cutters12 in x 4 cutters14 in x 4 cutters14 in x 5 cutters16 in x 5 cuttersFor more information, please visit https://www.ditchwitch.com/parts-service/digging-systems/backreamers.&nbsp;