PRINOTH is proud to announce that the PANTHER T16 is evolving to become the most versatile vehicle in its class. The T16 is now available with new track and configuration options to suit varying customer needs. There is now a choice between metal embedded solid rubber tracks (MERT) or the traditional D-dent track system. The PANTHER T16 customers have been requesting the rubber track option in order to allow more versatility when crossing or traveling on roads- as well as being gentler on shop floors when up-fitting or maintaining the vehicles. PRINOTH is always keen on providing its customers with the right products to suit their needs and the demands of the job. Moreover, the T16 is also now available with a dump box or flatbed options. This gives the PANTHER T16 the highest payload available on rubber tracks, boasting 33,500 lb of bulk load material payload while the Gross Vehicle Weight Rating is 75,000 lb. The dump box is able to receive up to 11.5 cubic yards of material. The dump box is lined with Hardox steel, making it extra sturdy to get the job done. With a maximum speed of 13 km/h (8 mph), this PANTHER model is sure to increase productivity, regardless of the project. A New Undercarriage Design yet the Same Outstanding Traction The T16 undercarriage was completely redesigned for the rubber track option to provide a sturdy undercarriage composed of five large wheels with both a tandem and a tridem suspension. PRINOTH&#8217;s patented tridem allows uniform distribution of the load over the rubber track while offering the same legendary suspension travel typical to all PANTHER models. The undercarriage is optimized by the automatic, hydraulically controlled track tensioning system allowing to achieve the ideal track tension. This prolongs the track&#8217;s life and allows for less maintenance and down time. The endless rubber track on the PANTHER T16 has the same unique zigzag-patterned design which increases off-road mobility, providing outstanding traction and side-hill grip. Furthermore, the vehicle, like all the PANTHER Series&#8217; models, is equipped with an auto-brake feature, providing optimal safety in all working environments. PANTHER Series&#8217; Standardized Features All PRINOTH PANTHERs are powered by Caterpillar engines. The reliability that the CAT engine provides, as well as CAT&#8217;s exceptional service are only two of the many reasons PRINOTH chose them when the platform was engineered. Additional standard features include a ROPS/FOPS certified cab designed for operator safety and comfort, a steering wheel and pedal combination for easier and more controlled operation of the vehicle in rough terrain. The ergonomic steering column is telescopic and tiltable. An elevated engine position provides optimal fording depth of up to 1,300 mm (51 in.) allowing operators to travel through swamps, mud or any other types of difficult terrain. PANTHER Series The PANTHER crawler carrier series is comprised of the T6, T8, T12, T14R, T16, and T22 models, and can access difficult worksites without damaging the terrain thanks to their low ground pressure design. While treading softly, they also carry the biggest payloads in the industry from 5,443 kg (12,000 lb.) up to an incredible 20,865 kg (46,000 lb.) worth of equipment, materials and supplies. Their superior stability and floatability are valuable assets when operating in challenging work environments such as mining, construction, oil and gas and electric utility. For more information, visit www.prinoth.com.