International communities, investors and experts in the energy sector have been urged to give Nigeria’s power sector priority when it comes to investing. According to Marcel de Souza the President of the ECOWAS commission, this move would certainly contribute to improving access to electricity in the entire sub-region. He also disclosed the Commission’s plans to invest US $35 billion in electricity. This will also include grid, solar and other renewable energy sources and infrastructure projects until 2025. According to him, despite the challenges facing the power sector, Nigeria is going  to meet  50 per cent energy needs in Niger and Benin Republics. He added that Nigeria is the major provider of natural gas to other countries of the region through  the West African gas pipeline. He urged participants to focus on the Nigeria power sector.  Mr. De Souza also asked them to understand the challenges and the proffer solution in line with the expectations of Nigeria and ECOWAS.  That is in the area of energy.  He also stated that resolving the energy challenges of Nigeria will stimulate economic recovery effort. Mr. De Souza stressed that investing in Nigeria power sector not only provides access to the vast huge ECOWAS electricity market. It also amounts to investing in the lives of over 350 million people of the region. Mr. Babatunde Fashola  who is the Minister of Power, Works and Housing  noted that the objective of the summit was consistent with the efforts of the Federal Government. That is the  efforts towards achieving incremental power . According to him, he is hopeful that the administration is working towards achieving steady power where many people have access to power. Hopefully eventually they will have uninterrupted power. He says that the conference has already contributed to incremental power. Mr. Babatunde Fashola also thanked Simon Gosling the Managing Director of Energy Net Limited for a donation to Pan Africa Solar Limited; which is currently involved in the implementation of solar projects in rural communities in Katsina State.