Kapsch TrafficCom’s joint venture with Zambian Lamise Trading Limited has been awarded a nation-wide concession contract by the Zambian Government for the design, installation and operation of systems and solutions for traffic surveillance, vehicle speed enforcement, vehicle inspection and vehicle registration. This scope of service will be realized step by step during a ramp-up phase as a part of a 17-year contract. The number of vehicles on Zambia’s roads have almost trippled in the ten years to 2016 and road fatalities increased from 10 per hundred thousand inhabitants to 13.8 per hundred thousand in the same period. In 2016 alone, 2,206 people died in traffic related accidents. Therefore, it is the aim of the Zambian Government, through its agency the Road Traffic and Safety Agency to significantly increase road safety and traffic management. André Laux, COO of Kapsch TrafficCom, said “We feel honored with our partners Lamise Trading to be entrusted by the Zambian Government to help improve traffic safety in the country.” For this project, Kapsch TrafficCom has entered into a 50:50 joint venture with Lamise Trading, a Zambian company based in Lusaka. “By installing and operating Kapsch TrafficCom’s leading edge equipment and systems the joint venture will create some five hundred jobs, provide a boost to the economy in Zambia through improved road transport, and reduce the number of traffic accidents and their impact”, comments Walid El Nahas, Chairman of Lamise Trading. Expected revenues in the first three years of operation are projected to be in the range of US$ 105m to US$ 130m. With the signature of Zambian officials, the contract entered into force with immediate effect. Kapsch TrafficCom is a provider of intelligent transportation systems in the fields of tolling, traffic management, smart urban mobility, traffic safety and security, and connected vehicles. As a one-stop solutions provider, Kapsch TrafficCom offers end-to-end solutions covering the entire value creation chain of its customers, from components and design to the implementation and operation of systems. The mobility solutions supplied by Kapsch TrafficCom help make road traffic safer and more reliable, efficient, and comfortable in urban areas and on highways alike while helping to reduce pollution. Kapsch TrafficCom is an internationally renowned provider of intelligent transportation systems thanks to the many projects it has brought to successful fruition in more than 50 countries around the globe. The family-owned company is headquartered in Vienna, Austria and in 2017 celebrated 125 years of successfully developing and implementing new technologies for the benefit of its customers. As part of the Kapsch Group, Kapsch TrafficCom has subsidiaries and branches in more than 30 countries. It has been listed in the Prime Market of the Vienna Stock Exchange since 2007 (ticker symbol: KTCG). Kapsch TrafficCom currently has more than 4,800 employees, and generated revenue of approximately EUR 648.5 million in fiscal year 2016/17.