High quality and volume is very crucial for the success of any manufacturing company and Booth Extrusions Limited under the respected Comcraft Group of Companies under the chairmanship of Dr. Manu Chandaria has clearly mastered the importance of this principle. Booth was incorporated out of the vision of its founders who were committed to bringing metal forming technology to the African Continent. After Independence, the economic growth of Kenya was rapid and there was a huge opportunity for the development in the building industry. Initially the use of aluminium in Kenya’s building industry was new but the architects, engineers and builders soon came to know the enormous benefits of Aluminium products. This awareness created a great demand for the Aluminium architectural profiles in the market. Aluminium sections were imported during those days which were a very expensive proposition for the builders and customers. Today Booth Extrusions is the market leader in supply of Aluminium Extrusion profiles to the construction industry in Kenya. Located on a 12 acres piece of land in Thika (Kiambu County), about 50 Kms away from Nairobi, Booth Extrusions Ltd came into existence in 1976 as the First Aluminium Extrusion Company in East and Central Africa. Under the leadership of Mr. Souvik Kumar, the Chief Executive Officer and active guidance from the Group Managing Director Mr. Rajendra Tewary, Booth Extrusions is today a leader in aluminium extrusions in the region, a position achieved by investing in quality, product range and sound manufacturing infrastructure.This ISO 9001/2002 certified company has a heavy duty, state-of-the-art press which extrudes sections to meet a wide range both in length and thickness as per the international BS Standard and are also KEBS compliant. “We strictly follow the BS standards in extrusions. We do not compromise at all on quality. That is why Booth is thename people are looking for,” noted Kiran Shah, the General Manager- Sales and Marketing during an interview. Booth Extrusions products include extruded aluminium for curtain wall, structural glazing, doors and entrance systems, windows systems, skylights, aluminium wall claddings, suspended glazing internal office partitions, false ceilings hunter douglas & acoustic, sun breakers and louvers, shower cubicles and shop front. The company has been soaring high because of quality as this is the guiding policy right from the raw material through all the processes to obtain the desired product.To meet the current trend, the company extrudes sections in a wide range of pleasing colors. The plant’s powder coating facility is state-of-the-art and gives durable and attractive finishes. Currently Booth has a capacity to produce 3,600 tons per year and meet the ever growing market demand. It has several facilities including a foundry, an extrusion press, anodizing and powder coating facilities. Booth Extrusions boasts of a modern laboratory which has been the company’s key strength. Since its inception, it has witnessed increased sales and tremendous customer base growth over the years. Booth takes pride in the fact that many of the leading, iconic landmarks in East Africa have used Booth Extrusions. Moreover, the ever growing list of loyal customers is the true strength of the company.The aluminium pioneers also export their products to Rwanda, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and South Sudan, an indication of their large market coverage within East Africa. Booth believes in worth, a reason behind their employees’ happiness and satisfaction. The success of the company is also as a result of exchange of technology and ideas among the other branches across Africa. Kiran says, “We exchange ideas and technology with our brother extrusion companies in Nigeria, Ghana and Sri Lanka to deliver the best.” Booths vision is to become world class manufacturers of cost effective and superior quality aluminium extrusions and Systems in East, Central and Southern African Region. Safe Working Environment. Mr Kiran talks about the Safety and Health committee which is audited regularly to ensure no safety compromise at the premises.“We believe in zero accidents, there are a lot of safety notices and directions at the factory. We do not need employees who cannot follow safety regulations,” asserts Kiran.The enforcement and effectiveness of the measures has resulted in zero loss time injuries in the last five years. He also affirms that all the water used within the plant goes through affluent water treatment and reused into the system. This ensures zero chemical discharge which can harm the environment. Iconic landmarks Booth Extrusions pops up whenever iconic landmarks are mentioned in Kenya and within the region. These include;Villa Rosa Kempinski Hotel in Nairobi, UNEP in Gigiri, USIU in Nairobi, Sarit Centre, Standard Newspaper headquarter, Zuri Centre in Thika, Norfolk Hotel, Junction Mall, Kenya DefenceIsiolo Camp, Nyayo House, Teleposta Tower, I & M Building, Stone Concrete Building in Uganda, Zenith Bank in Rwanda among many others. Community Service In the tradition of the Chandaria Foundation, all Companies in the Comcraft Group take their Corporate Social Responsibility seriously.Booth Extrusions has a steady stream of students from various institutions of higher learning, doing their industrial attachment to acquire practical insights and knowledge of the manufacturing environment. In conjunction with Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT), Booth commissioned a course in Aluminium Systems and Fabrication. This has offered an opportunity for 30 students over the past two years to study and get skills. This number has grown and 27 students were enrolled this year and according to Kiran, the number will keep on growing. This course is aimed at imparting human resource skills that enable trainees to effectively fabricate sound components such as windows, doors, partitions and trusses in the construction using extruded aluminium. “We are giving the training course to make the person a complete businessman right from getting the materials, making aluminium doors and windows, marketing, fitting them, satisfying the customer and getting the payment,” he explained. Once done with the course, Booth takes responsibility and offers a one month attachment to the fresh grandaunts. “The students are offered two weeks attachment at the workshop and two other weeks with our customers on site. This ensures that the students get the best experience, transforming theminto complete businessmen as they look forward to better lives,” adds Kiran noting that one lady has already opened a shop in Garden City Mall for making aluminium windows.According to Kiran, this course will be introduced in other Universities including University of Nairobi, Mount Kenya University and other JKUAT campuses. Booth employees participate annually in fundraising to support bright but disadvantaged students at Starehe Girls Centre.All the proceeds are channeled towards the school. Within the plant, activists from Hope Peace Foundation visit the factory and spread the message of peace and communal harmony, another Chandaria Foundation initiative. Looking into the future, Booth Extrusions is working towards conquering the market further. The company is in the process of starting a second extrusion plant in Kenya. This signals better times ahead and more innovative products for more customers in both public and private sector. “We are in the process of putting up our second extrusion plant and increasing our powder coating capacity,” adds Kiran. As this Thika based company marks 40 years of manufacturing excellence, the General Manager-Sales and Marketing thanks you as their customer for the continued support. He assures of the company’s commitment in its endeavor to continue manufacturing quality products to give the customers value for their money. He urges customers to consider buying locally manufactured aluminium extrusions as they are durable and do not require re-painting because of their aesthetics. “We thank all stakeholders in the building and construction industry, our employees and all our valued customersfor their continued support. Continue promoting locally manufactured aluminium extrusions,” concludes Kiran.  