China Minsheng Drawin Technology Group (CMIG Drawin) has launched the John Dude New City project in South Africa’s Gauteng province. The US$ 2.45bn investment marks the company’s initial entry into Africa’s affordable housing market. It also introduces signature construction technology to the continent to help improve sustainable development of city construction in Africa. CMIG Drawin will build 18,000 affordable homes which include public leasing houses and commercial properties, plus other public facilities. The project is also one of the 31 Mega City Projects in Gauteng set to improve infrastructure and create jobs for local residents. Jun Yin, CEO of CMIG Drawin said that the move feeds into the company’s mission to build partnerships with BRICS countries. He further added that it is an affirmation of CMIG Drawin’s leading technology. The entire project will include properties built using CMIG Drawin’s ‘prefabricated construction’ technology. Moreover, 95% of the staff will be hired locally to provide more employment opportunities in South Africa. Also read: Boosting affordable housing in Africa using ABTs Compared with traditional construction methods, prefabricated construction is much more efficient, productive and eco-friendly. This makes it ideal for addressing South Africa’s housing shortages with the promise of greatly-shortened construction time. CMIG Drawin has signed framework agreements with subsidiaries of French construction group VINCI to jointly develop the prefabricated construction industry in South Africa. John Dube New City marks one of their first partnership projects. VINCI, will also adopt CMIG Drawin’s prefabricated construction techniques in other countries such as the Netherlands and New Zealand. China Minsheng Drawin Technology Group Limited (CMIG Drawin), a unit of CMIG, is a world-leading construction service provider. The group is setting an example of high-quality, eco-friendly, and efficient construction. Having applied for more than 1,300 patents, CMIG Drawin has developed five leading technology systems for building industrialization. What’s more, the company  is actively cooperating with countries along the ‘Belt and Road’ route. In this way the firm uses its leading construction technology to help those countries upgrade their industries.  