Mövenpick Hotels & Resorts marks another milestone in its Africa expansion strategy. This is in regard to the construction work on the 160-key upscale Mövenpick Hotel Abidjan which is currently under way and set for opening in 2020. Mövenpick Hotel Abidjan will be the company’s first property in Côte d’Ivoire and one of four currently in active development in the region. The other three are Mövenpick Hotel & Residences Nairobi in Kenya, which is on track to open in 2018. Also, Mövenpick Hotel Addis Ababa in Ethiopia set to open in 2019 and Mövenpick Hotel & Conference Centre Abuja in Nigeria set for completion in 2020. Mövenpick Hotels & Resorts currently operates a 260-key property in Ghana – Mövenpick Ambassador Hotel Accra. “As building work on Mövenpick Hotel Abidjan commences, we take another step closer to realising our ambitious expansion plans for the Sub-Saharan region,” says Andrew Langdon, Chief Development Officer, Mövenpick Hotels & Resorts. Also Read: Ghana’s Movenpick Ambassador Hotel acquired by a Mauritius based firm Opening a modern lifestyle hotel in Côte d’Ivoire’s commercial and banking centre is a strategic move. It not only capitalises on Abidjan’s growing prominence as a major business hub, but also reinforces Mövenpick Hotels & Resorts’ presence in West Africa. This initiative is crucial to the company’s development strategy. This is because they actively seek opportunities to grow its portfolio and become a leading hospitality company in the region. Mövenpick Hotel Abidjan is located in the heart of the city’s Le Plateau business district. The hotel will help facilitate trade missions, government-related business and general commercial trade. Once complete, the property will feature an all-day dining restaurant; a lounge/bar; an Executive Club Lounge; a state-of-the-art fitness centre and a contemporary meeting space. Mövenpick Hotel Abidjan’s ownership is a joint venture between Société Abidjanese de Promotion Industrielles et Immobilières (SAPRIM); it is a private company that owns the office complex and mall adjacent to the property, and renowned construction firm Bouygues Batiment International.