Ann Sacks brings into its creative mix, Anello, a porcelain tile inspired by the natural irregularities of handcrafted ceramic tile and the materials mix that continues to gain momentum as a fresh way to dress a room. A simple color palette of black, white and gold and the ability to mix and match the tiles to make a statement as personal as the imagination behind it make Anello a savvy design choice. Anello is a through body extruded porcelain tile that takes its design cues from wood reflecting the whorls, rings, natural crackles, curling and dimpling. The matte black and white field tiles are sold by box and grouped into six sets of the following sizes: (4) 4.5”x5.5” field tiles; ; (2) 2”x5.5” field tiles; (1) 3”x5.5” field tile; and, (1) 1.5”x5.5” field tile. Juxtaposing these designs are decorative porcelain inserts in matte gold that are similarly patterned but sold individually serving to break the surface in random relief purely based upon personal taste for a truly custom result. Porcelain tile by its very composition makes it a good choice for indoor or outdoor projects and high-traffic areas, with minimal clean-up required and color that will last a lifetime. The color variation, thickness and size options all add to the handcrafted feel of Anello. The field tiles are suitable for indoor wall and flooring applications; however, the decorative gold inserts are appropriate for wall installations only. Founded in 1981, ANN SACKS has built its reputation with inspiring designs in tile, stone, plumbing, lighting and accessories. Based in Portland, Ore., the company, along with sister brands, KALLISTA plumbing and Robern mirrored cabinetry and vanities, is a division of the Kohler Co. Decorative Products Group, and a wholly owned subsidiary of Kohler Co. Founded in 1873 and headquartered in Kohler, Wis., Kohler Co. is one of America’s oldest and largest privately held companies. Kohler is a global leader in the manufacture of kitchen and bath products, engines and power generation systems, cabinetry, tile and home interiors, and international host to award-winning hospitality and world-class golf destinations.  