Construction work on the integrated port in Dakar, Senegal is set to commence at the tail end of 2018. This is according to DP World, the UAE-based global marine terminal operator. Port de Futur is aimed at providing seamless movement of cargo to neighbouring countries and also movement of over 200 million people in 16 landlocked African nations. The multi-purpose port with an economic zone and a logistics zone is adjacent to the new Blaise Diagne International Airport. It will allow for the movement of goods to support the country’s economic diversification, boasting non-resource exports. Also read: Mozambique, Portugal ink port transport, maritime MoU Once complete, the project will be one of the most advanced and well-organized free zones. The contractor is going to utilize state-of-the-art equipment and technology; this is according to Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem, DP World Group chairman and CEO. Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem was speaking during a meeting with Macky Sall, the President of Senegal. The DP World chief is in Senegal as part of a tour of West and North Africa to confirm the development of infrastructure projects in the country. The Prime Minister of Senegal and senior government officials attended the meeting. “The size of the region and their population reinforces the need for multi-modal transport. Logistics and customs capabilities across borders. We have the know-how to help in that mission,” he added. Also read: Uganda, Tanzania sign deal for construction of US$ 4bn crude export pipeline “In addition, we are already part of Africa’s future sharing our experience on cargo movement. Across the continent’s supply chain and have the experience to deliver major projects here,” explained further Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem. He also said that the company will soon reach an agreement on land allocation. For the associated free zone. It will also provide a master plan for redevelopment of the old port of Dakar, he added. Bin Sulayem said African nations are determined to develop their infrastructure to encourage trade and the growth of their economies. “The region has major trade potential, especially landlocked nations seeking gateways to the sea. Connectivity between them is key,” he pointed out. Across Africa, DP World has operations in Senegal, Egypt, Mozambique, Djibouti, Algeria and Somaliland where it is developing a multi-purpose port project at Berbera. It also secured a 25-year concession to develop and operate a new logistics centre in Kigali, Rwanda at the beginning of 2016, he added.    