HİDROMEK which creates difference in automotive design has won the “Winner” award in the transportation category with the HMK 640 WL wheel loader at German Design Awards that is recognized as one of the world’s most outstanding design awards. German Design Award is organized every year by German Design Council which is one of the world’s leading competence centres for communication and brand management in the field of design. Candidates are only nominated by the jury at German Design Award. In this competition, designs only compatible with predetermined criteria of jury are nominated and prizes will only be granted to projects that truly represent pioneering contributions to the international design landscape. HİDROMEK which had won “Special Mention” award in “German Design Award 2017” with HMK 600 MG also won the “Winner” award in the transportation category with the HMK 640 WL wheel loader at German Design Awards 2018. HİDROMEK, adding a new one to its design awards, is currently the owner of totally 11 design awards, 9 of which are internationally prestigious. HİDROMEK, a globally known manufacturer of construction machinery, was founded in Ankara in 1978. Hasan Basri Bozkurt, the founder and current board chairman, started with the production of attachments for agricultural tractors.  This initiative was moved further in the following years and the first construction machine ever designed by Turkish engineers was produced. The product range was expanded in time, which led to the growth of HİDROMEK; today HİDROMEK employs around 1900 employees. Excavators, loaders, hydraulic excavators, and motor graders are manufactured in five production facilities including 3 factories in Ankara, 1 factory in İzmir and 1 factory in Thailand. In 2017, a new production facility located on an area of 1 million m2 will come into service in Ankara. Exporting to more than 70 countries in 5 continents, HİDROMEK performs the management of international authorized dealers and provides sales and after sales services through international sales and after sales service centers such as HİDROMEK WEST in Barcelona, Spain; HİDROMEK RUSSIAN in Krasnodar, Russia and HİDROMEK JAPAN in Sagamihara, Japan. Creating the difference in design of construction machinery, HİDROMEK has crowned its accomplishment with many awards. As of today, HİDROMEK is the winner of totally 11 design awards, 9 of which are internationally prestigious. HİDROMEK is the first and only Turkish machinery manufacturer, who has been included in the “Yellow Table” list of the media institution KHL Group that provides information to the whole world in respect of construction machinery and sets a reference for the whole industry; the list ranges the largest construction equipment manufacturers in the world.  HİDROMEK has been ranked in this list for the last 5 years. As per figures declared by IMDER (The Construction Equipment Distributors and Manufacturers Association of Turkey), HİDROMEK has been the market leader in Turkey for the last eight years for backhoe loader sales and for the last five years for excavator sales.