Audio Visual Control Systems Limited is the pioneer company in East and Central Africa region that deploys advanced technology solutions all in – one automation and control solution that incorporates CCTV security surveillance, motion detection, access control, lighting control, temperature control, entertainment (AV Works) alarm and communication backed with an efficient support and services delivery. Since its inception in 2010 3rd May, the company can look back on a successful story of growth and product development in the construction industry. The firm has collaborated with world renowned AV technology manufacturers in the world such as HAI Leviton for security and automation, Panasonic, Sharp, Samsung, LG, Barix for IP Audio solution among other manufacturers where they import their products from. Above all the company works closely with the manufacturers. Confirming this, Kevin Nyota, of Audio Visual Control Systems, says, “We get certified training and technical support from manufactures”. As a result, the company confidently stands behind their promise to provide clients with excellence in communication, automation and security systems solutions. This has led to services in communication such as audio visual services, networking and IT set up to name but a few. The company competes on: quality products, cost effectiveness, factory technical support, system maintenance and installation, project management, commissioning and after sales services plus they pride themselves on a dedicated team that comprehends clients’ needs. “In light of ever growing demand for AV automation and integration, we understand that every customer and industry is not the same and accordingly, AVCS ensures that it provides custom designed and personalized services to each and every one of our clients,” he intensifies. Furthermore, honoring project timelines and offering world class customer oriented solutions coupled with experience has enabled them to secure business all over the country, in this competitive field. The firm has a team of highly dedicated and experienced technical and back-office personnel who provide their customers with round the clock assistance to meet their requirements. “The team offers consultation, installation; training and maintenance services effectively, and in accordance with the AVCS standards,” he added. Furthermore, since it is a one time job the firm intends to maintain its best service in the sense that they strive and focus towards the integration of AV systems and Information Technology, thus maintaining their slogan, “A Perfect balance between AV and IT” This has helped them remain apt in this industry. “We optimize our customers’ operations, helping them meet business objectives and sustainability goals in today’s challenging environment. This comes after doing site survey; that allows our technical team to offer advice to clients basing on the size of the project. Thereafter, understanding the client’s need we come up with a solution; each project has its own solution since the size of the project is what determines the kind of solution to be offered,” clarifies Mr. Nyota. The firm focuses on meeting the needs of small and medium sized business, as they are prepared to arrange a site visit with the clients so that they may observe solutions in practical deployment. As he clarifies, “We care about developing a long-term relationship with our customers. That is why we are focused on taking care of the customers’ needs by providing and delivering professional, helpful, high quality service and assistance before, during, and after the customer’s requirements are met. Our fully trained and qualified professionals are always and immediately available to respond to any need that you may be in need of. We are always ready to serve you at any time of the day, either remotely or onsite”. Under the stewardship of Mr. Abdul Rauf, the Director, the firm has successfully undertaken several works for various clients ranging from institution facilities, private, government and commercial clients such as Philips Pharmaceutical Group installation of a complete office automation solution (CCTV, Security, Access Control, Piped Music, Alarm, Digital Signage), Bank of Baroda installation of CCTV surveillance system, Kenyatta University installation of eleven pieces of smart interactive e- Learning boards and projectors, Alliance Francaise installation CCTV Surveillance System, Nairobi Aviation College successfully supplied, installed and commissioned IP CCTV Surveillance, Aga khan University (Supply and installation of wiring related to Audio Visual systems), among others. Audio Visual Control Systems Limited gives you an ideal alternative in supply, installation and servicing of communication, access system and security equipment as they maintain their mission of providing world class customer oriented solutions and technological tools that meet and exceed their audiovisual requirements within an atmosphere of honesty, integrity and excellent customer service. The company’s offices and workshop are based in Nairobi Mayfair suites, 3nd floor, Parklands road, Westlands.